
    adventurers


I change during the course of a day. I wake and I’m one person, and when I go to sleep I know for certain I’m somebody else.
Bob Dylan

Adventurer personalities are true artists, but not necessarily in the typical sense where they’re out painting happy little trees. Often enough though, they are perfectly capable of this. Rather, it’s that they use aesthetics, design and even their choices and actions to push the limits of social convention. Adventurers enjoy upsetting traditional expectations with experiments in beauty and behavior – chances are, they’ve expressed more than once the phrase “Don’t box me in!”



Happy to Be Who They Are
Adventurers live in a colorful, sensual world, inspired by connections with people and ideas. These personalities take joy in reinterpreting these connections, reinventing and experimenting with both themselves and new perspectives. No other type explores and experiments in this way more. This creates a sense of spontaneity, making Adventurers seem unpredictable, even to their close friends and loved ones.
Despite all this, Adventurers are definitely Introverts, surprising their friends further when they step out of the spotlight to be by themselves to recharge. Just because they are alone though, doesn’t mean people with the Adventurer personality type sit idle – they take this time for introspection, assessing their principles. Rather than dwelling on the past or the future, Adventurers think about who they are. They return from their cloister, transformed.
Adventurers live to find ways to push their passions. Riskier behaviors like gambling and extreme sports are more common with this personality type than with others. Fortunately their attunement to the moment and their environment allows them to do better than most. Adventurers also enjoy connecting with others, and have a certain irresistible charm.
Adventurers always know just the compliment to soften a heart that’s getting ready to call their risks irresponsible or reckless.
However, if a criticism does get through, it can end poorly. Some Adventurers can handle kindly phrased commentary, valuing it as another perspective to help push their passions in new directions. But if the comments are more biting and less mature, Adventurer personalities can lose their tempers in spectacular fashion.
Adventurers are sensitive to others’ feelings and value harmony. When faced with criticism, it can be a challenge for people with this type to step away from the moment long enough to not get caught up in the heat of the moment. But living in the moment goes both ways, and once the heightened emotions of an argument cool, Adventurers can usually call the past the past and move on as though it never occurred.
Meaning Is in Every Expression of Life
The biggest challenge facing Adventurers is planning for the future. Finding constructive ideals to base their goals on and working out goals that create positive principles is no small task. Adventurers don’t plan their futures in terms of assets and retirement. Rather, they plan actions and behaviors as contributions to a sense of identity, building a portfolio of experiences, not stocks.
If these goals and principles are noble, Adventurers can act with amazing charity and selflessness – but it can also happen that people with the Adventurer personality type establish a more self-centered identity, acting with selfishness, manipulation and egoism. It’s important for Adventurers to remember to actively become the person they want to be. Developing and maintaining a new habit may not come naturally, but taking the time each day to understand their motivations allows Adventurers to use their strengths to pursue whatever they’ve come to love.
01


    Strengths & Weaknesses

Adventurer Strengths




Charming – People with the Adventurer personality type are relaxed and warm, and their “live and let live” attitude naturally makes them likable and popular. 
Sensitive to Others – Adventurers easily relate to others’ emotions, helping them to establish harmony and good will, and minimize conflict.
Imaginative – Being so aware of others’ emotions, Adventurer personalities use creativity and insight to craft bold ideas that speak to people’s hearts. While it’s hard to explain this quality on a resume, this vivid imagination and exploratory spirit help Adventurers in unexpected ways.
Passionate – Beneath Adventurers’ quiet shyness beats an intensely feeling heart. When people with this personality type are caught up in something exciting and interesting, they can leave everything else in the dust.
Curious – Ideas are well and good, but Adventurers need to see and explore for themselves whether their ideas ring true. Work revolving around the sciences may seem a poor match for their traits, but a boldly artistic and humanistic vision is often exactly what research needs to move forward – if Adventurers are given the freedom they need to do so.
Artistic – Adventurers are able to show their creativity in tangible ways and with stunning beauty. Whether writing a song, painting an emotion, or presenting a statistic in a graph, Adventurers have a way of visualizing things that resonates with their audience.

Adventurer Weaknesses




Fiercely Independent – Freedom of expression is often Adventurers’ top priority. Anything that interferes with that, like traditions and hard rules, creates a sense of oppression for Adventurer personalities. This can make more rigidly structured academics and work a challenge.
Unpredictable – Adventurers’ dislike long-term commitments and plans. The tendency to actively avoid planning for the future can cause strain in Adventurers’ romantic relationships and financial hardship later in life.
Easily Stressed – Adventurers live in the present, full of emotion. When situations get out of control, people with this personality type (especially Turbulent ones) can shut down, losing their characteristic charm and creativity in favor of gnashing teeth.
Overly Competitive – Adventurers can escalate small things into intense competitions, turning down long-term success in their search for glory in the moment, and are unhappy when they lose.
Fluctuating Self-Esteem – It’s demanded that skills be quantified, but that’s hard to do with Adventurers’ strengths of sensitivity and artistry. Adventurers’ efforts are often dismissed, a hurtful and damaging blow, especially early in life. Adventurers can start to believe the naysayers without strong support.

02


    Romantic Relationships

Adventurers are quite mysterious and difficult to get to know. While very emotional individuals, they guard this sensitive core carefully, preferring to listen than to express. People with the Adventurer personality type focus instead on their partners, with little interest in dictating the mood of a situation with their own feelings. While this can sometimes be frustrating, if they are accepted for who they are, Adventurers prove to be warm, enthusiastic partners.
Things are unlikely to ever grow stale – even the longest-term partners can be surprised by the secrets Adventurers keep.



As their relationships grow, Adventurers’ partners come to find vibrancy and spontaneity to be par for the course. Adventurers may not be great long-term planners, preferring to let their partners take the lead when it comes to logic and strategy, but they almost never run out of things to do in the present. Also caring and loyal, Adventurers love finding ways to surprise their partners in fun little ways.
There’s also a sense of practicality to Adventurers’ unpredictability – if anyone is going to cancel a planned trip to stay home with a partner who suddenly got the flu as a gesture of affection, it is Adventurer personalities. Spending time with their partners is something Adventurers really enjoy, and they want their partners to know that they are cared for and special.
Knowing You Are Loved, You Can Do Anything
It’s important for their partners to make it clear that this love and attention is valued. Adventurers would never ask for such thanks, but it can really hurt their feelings if they don’t hear it. Such expressions don’t have to be verbal – Adventurers believe in actions, not words – but it’s crucial that they know their feelings are shared. On the other side of the spectrum, there are few types more vulnerable to criticism and conflict, and it’s necessary to provide a certain level of emotional support.
If they do feel appreciated, Adventurers are more than happy to reciprocate in any way they know how. People with the Adventurer personality type are very sensual, and in no aspect of their lives is this clearer than in their sex lives. Intimacy is an opportunity for Adventurers to satisfy their partners, and they involve every sense available in enjoying these moments. Adventurers may be shy in public, but alone with a partner they trust, the masks come off – few people get to see this side, and it’s always a pleasant surprise.
Love From the Soul
Feelings and emotions underpin every aspect of Adventurers’ relationships, alongside not just a tendency towards, but a need for, fresh possibilities. Adventurer personalities are not to be forced into anything, and rushing long-term commitments is a sure way to scare them off. If Adventurers can’t feel excited in wondering “what’s next?” every morning, they may find themselves wondering “what’s the point?”
Still, developing some skill with planning can be a healthy area of growth for Adventurers. Learning to be a little more comfortable with voicing their feelings and communicating more clearly is something their partners can also help with. In any case, sharing the Observant (S) trait usually smooths out the more challenging aspects of mutual understanding, and relationships with people who have the Extraverted (E) and Judging (J) traits helps Adventurers to learn and grow in real, attainable ways.
03


    Friendships

In friendship, Adventurers are some of the most comfortable people around. Laid back and spontaneous, people with the Adventurer personality type won’t bog things down with arguments or structured long-term plans. Intellectually exhausting pastimes like debates over European economic policy won’t hold their attention long. The here-and-now is what’s important to Adventurers, and they love spending time with their friends doing casual, fun activities.



I Don’t Want to Talk, I Want to Play!
Adventurer personalities believe in actions, not words. They talk about what is, not what could, should or will be, and then they actually do it. This passion for action is a blessing for Adventurers, since it helps them get past their shyness in meeting new people. Adventurers are sensitive, much more so than most, and it takes time to build enough trust with new friends to open up and feel natural.
If new acquaintances start things out by explaining “You’d do way better if...”, it’s unlikely they will ever be close – Adventurers just take these remarks too personally for comfort. People with this personality type are happy to get along with just about anyone, but potential friends need to ease up on being too judgmental or demanding.
If their friends keep things supportive and easy-going, Adventurers are happy to return the favor with added warmth and laughter. When they’re with friends they trust, Adventurers know how to relax, shedding rules, traditions and expectations in favor of just enjoying themselves.
Those who prefer safe, structured environments might end up struggling in these friendships though, especially if they lecture Adventurers on how they’re living their lives. As with any criticism, those friends are free to do their own thing, and to leave Adventurers to do theirs.
Adventurers’ relaxed, non-judgmental attitudes make it easy for them to get along with others, but it’s not always the same way around.
Lots of personal space and freedom are essential to Adventurer personalities, and it’s often other Explorer types, who share their “live and let live” worldview and joy in actually doing things, that gravitate towards Adventurers. There’s really no better friend than Adventurers for dropping the pretenses and enjoying low-stress fun.
04


    Parenthood

When it comes to parenting, Adventurers often feel right at home. While no one could be said to be truly prepared for such a task, Adventurer personalities’ natural warmth, practicality and relaxed nature help them to settle in and appreciate every moment of joy and hardship that comes with raising a child.
Children Show the Divine in Everyone
Adventurers’ greatest strength is arguably the joy they take in being with and helping their loved ones. Practical needs are taken care of from day one, and Adventurers’ children can always count on something exciting to do or to learn every day. People with the Adventurer personality type love fun, hands-on activities, and as their children grow, they’re often encouraged to pick up extra hobbies that revolve around those kinds of activities.



Even as those extra activities grow, Adventurers often defy their Introversion (I), spending time with their children and enjoying engaging activities that center on quality time. Impromptu trips, home improvement projects like repainting bedrooms, or simply baking some treats together are all likely to being fond memories for Adventurers’ children.
None of this is to say that Adventurer parents are overbearing – in fact, they are one of the most relaxed personality types there is when it comes to parenting. Adventurers believe that the only way to really have their children grow up to be open-minded and well-balanced people is to let them explore and experience new things, make mistakes and learn from them, and to always know that they’ll be able to come home at the end of it.
Interventions and hardline rules just aren’t Adventurers’ style.
The freedom Adventurers grant their children comes with risks too, since it demands a certain level of maturity from the children themselves. Some lessons are harder than others. These can be hard lessons for people with the Adventurer personality type too, since they are more sensitive than most when it comes to their lifestyles or parenting being criticized. Nothing’s quite as unpleasant as “I told you so”.
Long-term planning is another challenging area for Adventurer parents. When it comes to things like saving for their children’s college education, Adventurers necessarily rely on partners who take care of that sort of thing more readily. 
Never Stop Loving
As their children grow into adolescence, Adventurers sometimes struggle as well. Adventurer personalities need to know that their work and effort are appreciated, something teenagers aren’t well-known for expressing. It can take a lot of practice on Adventurers’ parts to learn the emotional control necessary to not overreact when things don’t go the way they want. Children make an effort to distance themselves at that age, and private individuals or no, Adventurers need to know that their loved ones are by their sides.
In the end though, Adventurers are so much less likely to create the kinds of divides that other more rigid personality types sometimes drive between themselves and their children. There’s always going to be some push from developing adults, but with such warm, caring parents, Adventurers’ children can always rest assured that they know where home and hearth are.
05


    Career Paths

When it comes to the career world, Adventurers need more than just a job. Wealth, power, structure, advancement and security are all lesser goals to Adventurer personalities’ greatest need: creative freedom. Adventurers crave a tangible outlet for their imagination, a chance to express themselves artistically.
Those placing their emphasis on predictability and long-term planning find that attempts to push those views on Adventurers are about as effective as forcing open flames to point downwards.



People with the Adventurer personality type are passionate experimenters, and whether they’re aware of it or not, they are renowned trendsetters. With their unique perspective and simple desire to be themselves, Adventurers are natural artists, musicians and photographers, as well as designers of all stripes. Setting up shop on websites like Etsy is far more alluring to Adventurers than the confines of 9-5 administrative work in some fluorescent cubicle.
Don’t Work at Being Ordinary
Adventurers loathe sitting idle in colorless, unchanging environments. They are free souls and need flexibility, opportunities for improvisation, and immersive work that engages every sense. If they combine these needs with their competitive nature, Adventurer personalities make great solo athletes. Adventurers prefer to live in the moment, believing the here and now is what matters most.
This quality does have the drawback of sometimes making Adventurers reckless and shortsighted, though those pitfalls aren’t set in stone. An emphasis on practical, tangible things, objects that can be seen and touched, comes at the cost of ignoring less tangible ideas. Adventurers often feel that they have little control over processes like retirement planning – they can’t predict the future, so it does no good to worry about it now.
Life’s too Short for Us to Bore Ourselves
This mindset can hold them back from many of their ideal careers, such as psychology, counseling and teaching, which require long-term planning and often extensive certifications to get started. It takes a great deal of energy for Adventurers to maintain focus on a single goal like that for so long, but it can make the day-to-day so much more rewarding for the rest of their lives.
An easier route revolves around freelance and consulting work in just about any industry that Adventurers enjoy. Whether organizing charity events, working with hospitals to make patients’ stays more pleasant, or laying stone to help make a house a home, Adventurers always seem to find a way to make the world a little more beautiful and exciting, and to make a living in the process.
06


    Workplace Habits

In the workplace, Adventurers seek out positions that give them as much wiggle room as possible to do things their own way. Button-down environments that revolve around tightly held traditions and strictly enforced procedures are unlikely to appeal to Adventurer personalities. Spontaneous, charming, and genuinely fun people to be around, Adventurers just want a chance to express those natural qualities, and to know that their efforts are appreciated.
Adventurer Subordinates
People with the Adventurer personality type don’t like to be controlled, and this can be quite clear in subordinate positions – they loathe being micromanaged. At the same time, Adventurers aren’t well-known for their long-term focus, but rather their adaptability and spontaneity. They’ll use unconventional methods, sometimes risky ones, and existing rules are just someone else’s way of doing things. Still, Adventurers find a way to make things happen. To manage Adventurer personalities successfully, there need to be clearly set goals, and otherwise an open sandbox.



If this balance can be made to work, Adventurers show themselves to be eager learners and passionate problem-solvers, especially if they get to deal one-on-one with other people or to tackle a problem solo. People with this personality type are humble, even shy, and unlikely to put themselves on the spot by volunteering their help. But Adventurers do love to feel appreciated, and if assigned a task, they work hard to earn that appreciation.
Adventurer Colleagues
Among their peers Adventurers feel most comfortable. Working with equals and giving some advice in order to solve practical problems is right where Adventurer personalities like to be. While they may exhaust themselves if their role requires an excessive amount of social interaction, they are otherwise quite charming and have excellent networking skills. 
Adventurers are tolerant and friendly, and usually just do what needs to be done regardless of whether their colleagues pull their own weight. At the end of the day though, Adventurers are sensitive and need to know that these efforts are appreciated – a well-placed compliment goes a long way. Adventurers do let their personal goals affect their approach to their work, which can make them a little unpredictable, but this is balanced by their desire for harmony and willingness to find win-win solutions whenever possible.
Adventurer Managers
The position that feels most unnatural to Adventurers is management. They are not a domineering personality type, and take no joy in exerting control over others, planning long-term goals, or disciplining unsatisfactory behavior. But just because it feels a little strange, doesn’t mean Adventurer personalities aren’t good at it. 
Adventurers’ sensitivity allows them to be great listeners, helping them to align their subordinates’ personal motivations with the task at hand. They also give their subordinates the freedom to do what needs to be done to solve what needs to be solved on any given day, and Adventurers are likely to dig into that work right alongside them. This gives Adventurer managers a marked style of inspiration and cooperation, and they’re usually well-liked.
07


    Conclusion

Few personality types are as colorful and charming as Adventurers. Known for their kindness and artistic skills, Adventurers are great at finding exciting new things to explore and experience. Adventurers’ creativity and down-to-earth attitude are invaluable in many areas, including their own personal growth.



Yet Adventurers can be easily tripped up in areas where their focus on practical matters is more of a liability than an asset. Whether it is finding (or keeping) a partner, reaching dazzling heights on the career ladder, or learning to plan ahead, Adventurers need to put in a conscious effort to develop their weaker traits and additional skills.
What you have read so far is just an introduction into the complex concept that is the Adventurer personality type. You may have muttered to yourself, “wow, this is so accurate it’s a little creepy” or “finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked “how do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to?”
This is not a trick. You felt understood because you were. We’ve studied how Adventurers think and what they need to reach their full potential. And no, we did not spy on you – many of the challenges you’ve faced and will face in the future have been overcome by other Adventurers. You simply need to learn how they succeeded.
But in order to do that, you need to have a plan, a personal roadmap. The best car in the world will not take you to the right place if you do not know where you want to go. We have told you how Adventurers tend to behave in certain circumstances and what their key strengths and weaknesses are. Now we need to go much deeper into your personality type and answer “why?”, “how?” and “what if?”
This knowledge is only the beginning of a lifelong journey. Are you ready to learn why Adventurers act in the way they do? What motivates and inspires you? What you are afraid of and what you secretly dream about? How you can unlock your true, exceptional potential?
Our premium profiles provide a roadmap towards a happier, more successful, and more versatile YOU! They are not for everyone though – you need to be willing and able to challenge yourself, to go beyond the obvious, to imagine and follow your own path instead of just going with the flow. If you want to take the reins into your own hands, we are here to help you.
08

