
    architects


“Thought constitutes the greatness of man. Man is a reed, the feeblest thing in nature, but he is a thinking reed.”
Blaise Pascal

It can be lonely at the top. Being one of the rarest personality types and being among the most capable people, Architects know this all too well. They make up just two percent of the population, and women with this personality type are especially rare, forming only 0.8%. It can be difficult for Architects to find people who can keep up with their non-stop analysis of things. People with this personality type are imaginative yet decisive... ambitious yet like their privacy... curious about everything but remain focused.

The Right Attitude for Meeting Goals
With a natural thirst for knowledge that shows itself early in life, other kids at school often call Architects “bookworms.” While their peers may intend to insult them, those with this personality type likely identify with the label. Throughout their lives, they’re proud of how much they know, and Architects enjoy sharing the knowledge they gain. They’re confident in their mastery of their chosen subjects. They are serious and prefer to design and carry out effective plans rather than waste their time with foolish distractions like gossip.

“You are not entitled to your opinion. You are entitled to your informed opinion. No one is entitled to be ignorant.”
Harlan Ellison

Architects accept and work with inconsistencies that make perfect sense to them – at least from a purely rational standpoint. For example, Architects can be both the most positive dreamers and the bitterest pessimists at the same time. On the positive side, these personalities believe nothing is impossible with enough effort, intellect, and thought. On the negative side, they might also believe that people are usually too lazy, unimaginative, or selfish to reach hard goals. But this idea won’t put them off chasing their own.
Standing on Logic and Principles
Architects are self-confident in the skills and ideas they focus on. Using their insights and logic, they push innovation through by sheer willpower. It may seem that Architects constantly deconstruct and rebuild every idea and system they encounter. They typically apply a sense of perfectionism and even morality to all their work. Anyone who can’t keep up with Architects’ processes or doesn’t see the point of them is likely to lose their respect.

	Architects, ever independent, remain free from the expectations of others. This allows them to pursue their own interesting and fresh ideas.

Architect personality types dislike rules, restrictions, and traditions. For them, everything should be subject to questions and reviews. When they can, Architects often act alone, and their approaches are usually innovative and unique. They may not wait for others to catch up to them. Because of this, they’re sometimes not as sensitive as they could be to the thoughts, desires, and plans of others.
But they aren’t impulsive. Architects strive to remain rational no matter how attractive an easy but ill-considered route might be. Every idea must pass the strict and ever-present “Does this make sense?” and “Is this going to work?” filters. They apply the filters to all things and all people, and this is sometimes where Architect personalities run into trouble.
Traveling Alone and Accomplishing Much
Architects are confident in the subjects they take the time to understand, but, unfortunately, they are reluctant to bother with topics that involve social skills. White lies and small talk, even when useful, are hard for a personality type that needs truth and depth. Architects may even see many social practices as downright stupid.
Ironically, it is often best for Architects to remain where they’re comfortable – out of the spotlight. They have natural confidence there. If they stay within their element and do what they do best, they are likely to draw people to them, professionally, socially, and even romantically. They are fine on their own, and reaching out is often optional.
This strategic style isn’t meant to suggest that Architects act coldly and without conscience. But Architects like to win and dislike acting solely on emotions, and this can make it seem that way to other types who don’t understand them well. This may explain why many fictional villains are modeled on this personality type. But Architects are as likely as anyone else to act from integrity – or more, if to do so makes clear sense.
Architects move through life as though it were a giant chessboard, advancing and retreating with considered intelligence. This personality type always looks for new tactics, strategies, and contingency plans. They constantly outsmart their peers as they maintain control, all the while making the most of their independent style of thinking. With this, they can achieve any goal they apply themselves to.
01


    Strengths & Weaknesses

Architect Strengths


Quick, Imaginative, and Strategic Mind – Architects pride themselves on their minds, and they take every chance they can to improve their knowledge. This shows in the strength and flexibility of their strategic thinking. Highly curious and always up for an intellectual challenge, Architects see things from many different angles. Architect personalities use their creativity to plan for unforeseen possibilities.
High Self-Confidence – Architects trust their rationalism above all else, so when they decide something, they have no reason to doubt their decisions or insights. This creates an honest, direct style of communication that isn’t held back by what others expect of them. When Architects are right, they’re right, and nothing will change that fact. Whether it’s a person, a process, or themselves whose course needs to be corrected, they’ll hold their ground and have it no other way.
Independent and Decisive – This creativity, logic, and confidence form individuals who stand on their own and take responsibility for their actions. Authority figures don’t impress Architects, and neither do social conventions. And no matter how popular something is, if they have a better idea, Architects stand against anyone they must to promote their plan. Either an idea is rational, or it’s wrong – and they’re happy to apply that standard to themselves.
Hard-Working and Determined – If something grabs their interest, Architect personalities can be very dedicated to their work. They often put in long hours and intense effort. Architects are goal-oriented, and if tasks lead to something clear and relevant, they strive to accomplish those tasks. 
Open-Minded – Architects are open to new ideas as long as they’re argued well. People with this personality type are even (maybe especially) open to ideas that go against their own if the thinking is sound. They often apply their openness and independence when thinking about matters like alternative lifestyles. Mix this with their dislike for rules and traditions, and it’s easy to see how Architects might lean toward more tolerant social views.
Jacks-of-all-Trades – Because of Architects’ open-mindedness, willpower, independence, confidence, and planning abilities, they are capable of doing anything they set their minds to. Skilled at hacking anything life throws their way, Architects are able to break down and learn from almost any system. They then use the ideas found there wherever they’re needed. Architects tend to have their pick of jobs, from IT system designers to political organizers.

Architect Weaknesses


Arrogant – Architect personalities can carry their confidence too far. They may falsely believe that they’ve fixed all the issues of a matter, then call it a day, rejecting the opposing opinions of those they believe to be intellectually inferior. With their disrespect for social standards, Architects can be insensitive when offering their opinions if they aren’t mindful of their attitude and less-developed social skills.
Judgmental – Architects have complete confidence in their thought processes because rational arguments are almost by definition correct – at least in theory. In practice, emotional considerations and history are hugely influential. A weak point for people with the Architect personality type is that they brand these factors and those who embrace them as illogical. They often dismiss them as people who think in an inferior way. This can make it all but impossible for others to be heard.
Overly Analytical – A repeated theme when discussing the strengths of Architects is their analytical skills. But this strength can fail them when logic isn’t the most important factor. Relationships, in all their complexities, often resist neat explanations. Architects may be highly critical and sometimes reach a high level of picky thoroughness when dealing with others. At that point, many people – with the exception of extremely loyal and understanding friends – are likely to flee, sometimes not to be seen again.
Loathe Highly Structured Environments – Architects hate blindly following...anything...without understanding why. They have a greater dislike for authority figures who go around forcing others to obey laws and rules without understanding the purpose of the standards themselves. Architects are likely not to get along with anyone who prefers how things “have always been.” However, by not going along with the standards – even when doing so might not be a big deal – Architects can make their lives harder than they need to be.
Clueless in Romance – This resentment toward rules and their tendency to overanalyze and judge, even to the point of arrogance, adds up to a personality type often clueless in dating. Having a new relationship last long enough for Architects to understand what is going on and how to behave is difficult. Trying harder in the ways that Architects are used to can only make things worse, and, unfortunately, it’s common for them to simply give up the search for love. Ironically, this more-relaxed state is when they’re at their best, and only then are they most likely to attract that special someone without effort.

02


    Romantic Relationships


“Of all forms of caution, caution in love is perhaps the most fatal to true happiness.”
Bertrand Russell

In romance, people with the Architect personality type approach things the way they do most situations: they create a well-designed plan with precise expectations and the right end goal. Here, the goal is a healthy long-term relationship. They rarely fall head over heels in love in a way that involves spontaneous passion and romance. Architects find potential partners who meet certain established criteria, break the dating process down into measurable steps, then complete the plan with great precision.
In a purely rational world, this would be foolproof. However, it ignores important factors that Architects are likely to easily dismiss, such as human nature.
People with the Architect personality type are intellectual, always developing a world in their heads that is more perfect than reality. Other people entering their worlds need to fit this fantasy in some way – even if only by agreeing with their concepts. It can be incredibly difficult for Architects to find someone up to the task. Finding a compatible partner is the most significant challenge the majority of Architects will face in life.
Direct and Honest Over Social Rites
Sentiment, tradition, and emotion are Architects’ weaknesses, and social gestures that seem not to have a clear purpose are often viewed by Architects as silly, even insulting. The problem is that common, ritualistic dating practices grew over time to make introductions between potential partners easier. They help couples gradually develop a connection. Architects’ liking for directness and honesty, in both word and deed, often go against these unspoken social agreements and niceties. This can make dating difficult for them.

	The lesson Architects often learn is that the ways of love are hard to describe on a spreadsheet.

As they mature, Architects often come to see romantic rituals as important. But until they do, it can be risky, especially for Turbulent Architects. If they are shot down too many times when younger, they may decide that everyone else is too irrational or beneath them intellectually. If cynicism takes hold, Architect personalities may begin to show off their intellectual superiority – as they place themselves above such “silliness.” Being alone then becomes their unintentional choice – a kind of surrender to a life without love.
Always Cool
The positive side of Architects’ “giving up” is that they are most attractive when they aren’t trying to be attractive, most appealing when they are doing what they do best. Generally, that means working in a familiar environment where their confidence and intelligence can shine. Allowing others to come to them is often Architects’ best strategy. Then, if they believe a relationship has potential, they will spare no effort in developing and maintaining stability and long-term satisfaction.

Once a relationship begins, an Architect’s significant other will find an imaginative and enthusiastic companion. Architects typically give a huge amount of freedom to the people they love, and are often trusting partners. People with the Architect personality type may never be very comfortable sharing their feelings, and they may spend more time thinking about love than expressing it. But, using their strategic thinking, they usually figure out how to make a situation work for everyone – including the act of falling in love.
Architects seek strong, deep relationships, and trust their knowledge and logic to ensure that their partner is satisfied, both intellectually and physically.
But when it comes to emotional satisfaction, Architects are often out of their element. Not every partner likes addressing conflicts and emotional needs as cold puzzles to be analyzed and solved like Architects do.
Sometimes emotions need to be expressed for their own sake, and putting every outburst under the microscope, as Architects are prone to do, isn’t always helpful. If outbursts become a habit needing constant attention, or Architects think they may, these personalities can simply end the relationship. They’ll see this as more rational than dragging things out to their exhausting conclusion.
Truth and Morality
Architects value depth and intelligence, bringing stability and insight into their romantic relationships. They prize honest communication, and everything in a relationship is open to discussion and change. But this must be returned by their partners.
Architects do what they think is right regardless of feelings, and sometimes that comes across as cold. It’s important for their partners to know that Architects don’t make these decisions lightly. They spend tremendous time and energy trying to understand why and how things go wrong, and they hurt deeply when things fall apart. This is especially true if they’ve taken the difficult risk of committing themselves.
Their challenge is finding partners who share those same values. While no personality type is excluded from this, each provides its own unique challenges. It can be important for Architects to feel like they’re on common footing on at least a few fronts, making some shared traits a potentially important factor. But they shouldn’t necessarily go around looking for another Architect. Each opposing trait brings the opportunity for great personal growth.
Having one or two counter-balancing personality traits – such as Extraverted (E), Observant (S), Feeling (F), or Prospecting (P) – can help keep a relationship dynamic and growth-oriented. They challenge Architects to remain involved with other people, focus on the present, get in touch with their emotions, and stay open to things they’re not used to. To a type so intent on their own development, these differences can make all the difference.
03


    Friendships


“A friend to all is a friend to none.”
Aristotle

Architects tend to have more success in developing friendships than they do with romantic relationships, but they have many of the same difficulties with both. They too often put rational processes in place of emotional availability. This intellectual distance tends to go both ways. Architects are difficult for others to get to know. And they don’t always want to bother with anyone else they believe isn’t on their level. Avoiding these potholes is nearly impossible – except for the instant connection often made when potential friends share the Intuitive personality trait.

Friends as Intellectual Soulmates
Architects tend to have strong opinions about what works, what doesn’t, what they’re looking for, and what they’re not. This can come across as arrogance. But Architects would argue it’s a basic filtering tool that allows them to focus more effectively.
In friendship, people with the Architect personality type are looking for an intellectual soulmate more than anything else. People who aren’t equipped for such a relationship are seen as boring. Architects need to share their expansive ideas; making chronic small talk is something they typically avoid.

	Architects will keep up with just a few good friends, eschewing larger circles of acquaintances in favor of depth and quality.

Further, having more than just a few friends may compromise Architects’ sense of independence and self-sufficiency. They gladly give up popularity to ensure this freedom. This need for freedom even applies to the few who fit the Architects’ criteria for friendship. Their relationships need little attention or upkeep to remain on good terms. They encourage everyone in their lives to enjoy the same independence.
With emotional support, Architects are far from being good at offering comfort. They expect their friends to do the same. When emotional situations happen, Architects may have no clue how to handle them. They may have no idea what to do. This sudden cluelessness goes against their usual ability to calmly and rationally make decisions and can seriously throw them off-kilter.
A Unique Friendship
When they are in their comfort zone, though, among people they know and respect, Architect personalities have no trouble relaxing and enjoying themselves. Their sarcasm and dark humor aren’t for everyone – especially those who struggle to read between the lines – but these types provide fascinating stories for those who can keep up.
It’s not always easy to become friends with Architects. Rather than the usual social rules and behaviors, Architects look for friends who value intellect, honesty, and a wish to grow and learn. Architects are bright and always want to improve themselves, and expect their friends to share this attitude. Anyone falling short of this is labeled a bore. But anyone with these qualities likely appreciates Architects as well, forming strong and exciting friendships that stand the test of time.
04


    Parenthood


“Children must be taught how to think, not what to think.”
Margaret Mead

Parenting, like so many other person-to-person relationships, is a challenge for people with the Architect personality type. Being so devoted to rational thought, logic, and analyzing cause and effect, Architects aren’t always prepared to deal with people who haven’t developed these same abilities – like children. But these parents can’t walk away from their still-learning offspring as they might a clueless adult. Luckily, Architects thrive on committing to long-term projects. This may be especially true for a lifelong project as meaningful as parenthood.

The Challenge of Emotional Support
Architect parents aren’t prone to give as much warmth as the classic images of parenting suggest they should. They are often insensitive and not prone to displays of affection. But children need cuddling and other expressions of love, especially during the younger years. And if Architects have children who are more sensitive, they may carelessly step on their feelings trying to make sense of things. It can take a clear effort on their part to transform their colder traits into something warmer and more child-friendly.
Even less sensitive children need emotional support occasionally. This is especially true of adolescents. Architects, even more than other Analyst types, have trouble handling their own emotions. They often struggle to be much help as their children grow into theirs.
Architects also tend to avoid tackling a problem that doesn’t go along a well-defined path to a definitive answer – and emotional issues sometimes don’t. Architects are strongest when finding a root cause and developing a plan to solve a problem. But sometimes the best solution to a kid’s problem is just sitting with the child as they explore their feelings.

	Architect parents don’t just tell their children what to do, though – they prompt them, make them use their own minds, so they arrive at the same conclusions or better ones.

Architects also recognize that life is often the best teacher, and they tend to be a bit more liberal with boundaries, allowing their children to have their own adventures and make many of their own decisions. They believe in developing their critical thinking skills. This isn’t to say that Architect parents are lenient – far from it. Rather, they expect their children to use their freedom responsibly, and this expectation alone is enough for parent and child to develop mutually appreciated ground rules.
When necessary, Architect parents speak openly with their children. They typically believe in honesty and that knowing the truth is better than not knowing it. They hold tight to the idea that being right is far better than being wrong and, for better or worse, pass this attitude on to their children.
Raising Children to Be Capable Adults
If their children accept their approach to parenting, they begin to trust and respect their Architect parents. Architect personalities are excellent communicators when they want to be. They frame problems as opportunities for personal growth. They help their children develop their own style of rational thinking and problem-solving. With their parents’ guidance, children can apply this to more and more complex situations, building their confidence as they grow. Architects try to make sure that their children are prepared to deal with anything life throws at them.
All this comes from Architects’ core philosophy of intelligent self-direction. These personalities try to mold their children in their own image. They work to raise capable adults who can use their own minds, solve their own problems, and help their own children do the same when the time comes. Architects understand this can’t happen if they protect their children from every difficult or unpleasant thing in life. But then, they believe that if they give their children the right tools, they won’t have to.
05


    Career Paths


“The role of genius is not to complicate the simple, but to simplify the complicated.”
Criss Jami

Professional know-how is often where Architects shine most brilliantly. They easily take in complex principles and techniques and change them into clear and actionable strategies. No other personality type comes close to their ability to assess and organize concepts.
Architects can usually sort out the “noise” of a situation, then find the core thread that needs to be pulled to unravel messes – which they then put back together again. In the process, they produce the most elegant solutions to problems. As they grow, their confidence, enthusiasm, and creativity typically lead them to more interesting work. In time, they are likely to earn the independence they typically desire.

The real problem for Architects is that they need their new and creative ideas to be heard. They need to have someone in charge listen to them. But forming relationships with people who make decisions is not exactly part of the Architects’ core strengths. In their early careers, Architects often have to do boring tasks that don’t challenge them and deal with having their ideas repeatedly rejected. But, with time, they are likely to develop their abilities into skill sets so effective that they get noticed.
Working Best, Working Alone
People with the Architect personality type usually prefer to work alone or in small groups. There, they can make the most of their creativity and focus without constant interruptions from curious coworkers or supervisors who call too many meetings. Architects are unlikely to be drawn to management roles or anything that involves nonstop interaction and teamwork, often preferring more “lone wolf” jobs. They like a drawing board more than a boardroom meeting. Like so many others, Architects get along best with leaders who understand their style of working and can help advance their visions.
The other side of that coin is that Architects dislike anyone who gets ahead by playing the office politics game well or working a company’s social scene just right. They judge their coworkers by what they can do and not who they know. Architects have high standards – if they view a colleague or supervisor as being not up to those standards or otherwise ineffective, respect can be instantly and permanently lost.
People with the Architect personality type value personal resourcefulness, grit, insight, and commitment in themselves and in others. They believe that everyone should complete their work and meet the highest possible standards. If a social butterfly at work breezes through without carrying their own weight, they may find Architects using their ingenuity to find ways to stop their nonsense.
Earning the Right Positions
As their careers progress further and their reputations grow, so will the difficulty of the tasks and projects Architects are offered. Architect personalities demand progress and evolution, and they love to explore new ideas. They often satisfy this by pushing themselves into more active strategic positions. While they don’t care for the spotlight, Architects do enjoy controlling their ideas. They often take on low-profile but influential roles as project managers, systems engineers, marketing strategists, systems analysts, and military strategists.

	Architects view a combination of intelligent approach and hard work as the road to excellence. 

But really, Architects’ vision, creativity, and skill in carrying out their plans make these personalities possible candidates for just about any career. Some careers, such as sales and human resources, don’t necessarily play to their strengths, but that shouldn’t stop them if they decide to take up these kinds of work. Architects have the qualities necessary to work in just about any organization if they decide to. And if they find nothing out in the world, they usually have in abundance what it takes to start their own businesses.
06


    Workplace Habits

Architects want to tackle intellectually interesting work with little outside interference. They want no more and no less. Time-consuming management techniques like trust-building gatherings, progress meetings, and long sessions that look backward rather than forward only annoy Architects. All they need – be they subordinates, colleagues, or managers – is to meet their goals with the highest standard of technical excellence. And it may help them if they’re surrounded by people who share those values – if anyone surrounds them.
On paper, this makes them appear to be model employees. In many ways, they are. But a lot of personality types will find working with Architects challenging. Architects have a strict code of conduct when they work. If they see coworkers valuing social activities and accepting “good enough” workmanship over excellence, there’s likely to be trouble. Architects prefer to work in tight, like-minded groups – and a group of one is just fine with this type.
Architect Subordinates
Architect personalities are independent people. They can become frustrated if they find themselves pushed into roles that limit their freedom. With the direction of an open-minded manager, Architects can set themselves up as experts and earn some of their desired independence. Architects appreciate straightforward, no-nonsense managers. They respect those who lead competently, deliver thoughtful criticism when necessary, and back their decisions with clear logic. And they respect superiors even more when they then step back and give Architects room to work.

Note that it’s Architects’ expectations of their managers being defined here, and not the other way around, as with some other personality types. Titles mean little to Architects, and they rarely work just to impress a boss. Trust and respect are earned, and Architects expect this to be a two-way street, with all receiving and delivering advice and criticism and all bringing about results. Architects expect their managers to be intelligent enough and strong enough to handle this relationship. A silent Architect conveys a lack of respect better than all their challenges ever could.
Architect Colleagues
Active teamwork is not ideal for people with the Architect personality type. Independent and private, Architects use their quick minds and insight to turn aside distractions, and they rarely take part in much personal talk or office drama. Architects often foster work environments where they aren’t slowed down by those less intelligent, less capable, or less adaptable to their more efficient methods. They feel no need to bring their colleagues along if they aren’t going to be helpful.
Architects typically gather a small group of trusted colleagues into their brainstorming sessions. They rarely invite coworkers who get too hung up on details, or who have not yet earned their respect. But, more likely, Architects simply go it alone. Their perfectionism and resolve usually mean they produce effective results and clean solutions. These successes give those with the Architect personality type both the time alone they need and the sense of victory they enjoy.
Architect Managers
Though they may be surprised to hear it, Architect personalities can make great leaders. Architects value innovation and effectiveness more than just about any other quality. They are happy to throw aside the chain of command in favor of effective workflow, recognizing that artificial respect for their authority isn’t necessarily going to bring about good results. Solutions are more important than positions to this type. Whatever works rules the day for these managers.
Architects promote freedom and flexibility in the workplace, and they prefer to treat those who work for them as equals, respecting and rewarding proactive behavior. Their attitudes as managers can be summed up by the phrase, “To the best minds go the responsibilities.” They prefer to direct broader strategies while letting more hands-on workers manage day-to-day activities.
But this freedom isn’t just granted – it’s required. Those who are used to just being told what to do – who can’t direct themselves or challenge existing ideas – have a hard time meeting Architects’ high standards. Efficiency and results are kings to Architects, and behaviors that chip away at these standards are likely crushed. If workers attempt to make up for their poor results by trying to win their Architect boss over with flattery or social attention, they are likely to be disappointed. Those things rarely work with Architects.
07


    Conclusion


“No escape from patterns and systems, no exits. Nothing, and no one, resides outside a system; that’s the way it is.”
Lynne Tillman

Armed with a powerful intellect and strategic thinking, Architects can overcome or outmaneuver obstacles that seem unbeatable to most. Their many quirks, such as an often unconstrained rationalism, lead to many misunderstandings. Those misunderstandings end here. What you have read so far is just an introduction – we have a great deal more to tell you about the Architect personality type.
In reading through your results, you probably hit a tipping point. You went from trademark Architect skepticism to “Huh...” to “Wait, what?” You may even be a little uncomfortable because you are really not used to being understood, even by the people to whom you’re closest.
Chances are, you’ve accepted that as part of who you are, and maybe even grown proud of it. But embracing that disconnection isn’t a requirement for Architects. It’s a misused defense mechanism, leading you down a lonely, inefficient path. Gaining insight into yourself and others is so much more rewarding.

This is no date-of-birth gimmick. No, we did not spy on you. Instead, we’ve spent years studying Architects’ life stories, experiences, and patterns in hundreds of our surveys. Step by step, insight by insight, we discovered how those who share your qualities and outlook have overcome the challenges they’ve faced. You are a unique individual, but you are not alone in this. It’s wise to learn from others’ experiences – and we’d like to share those insights with you.
As you move forward into the e-books and interactive courses we offer, we go much deeper into the Architect mind. We answer not just “What?” but “Why?” “How?” and “What if?” Why do you act the way you do? How do you find motivation and inspiration? What if you moved beyond fear to pursue what you secretly want to achieve in life?
We can show you how to use your strengths to unlock your potential and avoid common problems, while also staying true to who you are. That’s the point, isn’t it? To see how you can grow to be the person you know you’re capable of being, in ways that finally feel right. Read on, Architect.
08

