Aries (March 21 - April 19)
Aries loves to be number one, so it s no surprise that these audacious rams are the first sign of the zodiac. Bold and ambitious, Aries dives headfirst into even the most challenging situations (which is appropriate, since the body part associated with Aries is the head). Like their fellow fire signs, Leo and Sagittarius, Aries is a passionate, motivated, and confident leader who builds community with their cheerful disposition and relentless determination. Uncomplicated and direct in their approach, they often get frustrated by exhaustive details and unnecessary nuances. They like things quick and dirty, a temperament also reflected in their sexual proclivities.
Aries is a cardinal sign that kicks off not only the spring season but also the entire zodiac wheel. Astrologers believe that each sign learns the lessons absorbed by its preceding signs, both joyful and painful. In the case of Aries, however, there is no inherited wisdom: Aries leads with blind optimism, barreling through life with an electric joie de vivre that perfectly complements their distinctive impulsivity. These fire signs think after they leap, which often results in lessons learned the hard way. Aries represents the singular spirit (while Aries s opposite sign, Libra, symbolizes partnership). These rams adhere to an “every person for themselvesphilosophy. While this self-determination can be inspiring, Aries needs to watch out for selfish tendencies.
Aries is ruled by Mars, the dynamic red planet named after the Roman god of war. Accordingly, these courageous rams are always armed and ready for battle. Aries is known for an explosive temper, and although their outbursts don t last long, it s definitely best to avoid fiery rams until the steam has dissipated. But when these brazen rams are not flying off the handles, they re upbeat, positive, and playful creatures who enjoy living life to its fullest. You can always be sure to spot an Aries excelling on the sports field, speeding down the highway, or organizing a vibrant party game.
Aries is the first sign of the zodiac, and Aries natives are the first to start—and the first to finish—whatever they set out to do. Aries is an active, energetic sign. People with Sun in Aries are direct, straightforward, and uncomplicated. They expect the same from others and are baffled when they don t always get it.
The body comes first with Aries. Sun in Aries people are natural athletes. At the very least, their natural inclination is to use their bodies to get things done. They re not given to long, drawn-out emotional moments; nor are they big on planning ahead. Instead, they live their lives simply. What is happening right now is most important to Aries. Impatience is a definite vice, and innovation is a huge strength. Aries loves to start anything new, and they have trouble sitting still. They are pioneers in whatever they do, and there is a very basic quality of bravery in these people that is unmistakable! Aries generally knows what they want, and they know the quickest route to getting it. They take shortcuts if they must, but generally, everything is aboveboard. Underhanded just isn t their style. Some Aries people are bold, but even the quieter ones are brave and even plucky in their own way. Independence is their birthright. Nothing gets them going more than a fresh slate, the promise of a new day, and a brand new start.
Aries enjoys a challenge, and Aries Suns are happiest when their lives are moving forward and active. There s a childlike quality to all Aries Sun people, and it s often quite charming.
How to Recognize ARIES 
They would not remember the simple rules their friends had taught them: such as that a red hot poker will burn you if you hold it too long;and that, if you cut your finger very deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds. 
Have you recently met an unusually friendly person with a forceful manner, a firm handclasp and an instant smile? Get ready for a dizzy dash around the mulberry bush. You ve probably just been adopted by an Aries. Especially if you found it a little tough to take the lead in. the conversation. 
Is he committed to some idealistic cause and angrily defending the underdog? That figures. Male or female, these people will fight what they feel is an injustice on the spot, and they re not bashful about voicing their opinions. The ram will talk back to a traffic cop or an armed gangster with equal vigor, if either one happens to annoy him. He may regret it later, but caution won t concern him in the heat of the moment. Mars people come straight to the point, with no shilly-shallying. 
Aries is the first sign of the zodiac. It represents birth, as Pisces represents death and consciousness of the soul. The ram is conscious only of himself. He s the infant of the zodiac-the newborn baby-completely absorbed with his own toes and fingers. His needs come first. An infant doesn t care whether or not his parents or the neighbors are sleeping. When he s hungry or wet, he yowls in discomfort. He wants his bottle, and he wants his diaper changed now, and don t be pokey about it. When the Aries person has an idea or something he wants to get off his mind, he ll call you at four in the morning without a qualm. Why shouldn t you be awake to listen to him? He s awake. That s all that counts. He wants something. He gets it. 
Like the infant, Aries is concerned with the world only as it relates to himself. But who could call the small baby truly selfish? He s perfectly willing to lavish his smiles and favors on those who satisfy his demands. It s hard to resist a baby, 


because he s so totally unaware that he s causing anyone the slightest inconvenience. So it is with the ram. His innocence hangs over him and mellows his ag- gressiveness, like the innocence of the newborn softens his egocentricity. 
This disarming naivete is also why Aries people are so fearless. The baby fears nothing and no one, until he gets burned. Even then, he ll trustingly try again, when he s forgotten the hurt. There s not a trace of cunning wile in the ram, and he ll remain this way throughout his lifetime; forever believing with all his heart, always falling down and getting up again to try once more. Any doubts he collects along the way are immediately displaced by the next person who s kind to him, just as the baby forgets the pain of the safety pin that accidentally stuck in his leg the next time someone sprinkles the powder. 
The ram can make believe from here to tomorrow, and spin fabulous dreams, but he can t lie worth a tinker. 
I What you see before you is what he is. There s nothing hidden or complicated about him. He s just as vulnerable as the baby, and just as helpless. When stronger, more mature people force him or take things away from him, he reacts in the only manner he knows-yelling and causing so much disturbance, that people give in just to get peace. He doesn t needdelicate strategy. Lung power and self-absorbed determination suffice beautifully to allow him to get his way. Perhaps helpless is not the right word. Vulnerable, yes-but helpless, no. 
It s a cinch to recognize the physical appearance of the ram. Aries people have decided features, usually sharp, seldom soft or blurred. The well-marked brows often join with the narrow bridge of the nose in forming the sign of the ram ( ^), perhaps as a warning to anyone with the silly idea of trying to stop or conquer him that those symbolic horns mean business. You may notice a mole or a scar on the head or face, a reddish cast to the hair in the sunlight, and more color than average in the complexion. You may also sense invisible sparks shooting out in all directions. The movements will usually be quick and capable, with a mental process to match. Both the male and female rams normally have broad shoulders, and they may walk with the body slightly bent forward, leading with the head, so to speak, and almost always in a great hurry. (Often, they re in a hurry to get to a brick building to knock down, though their homs may get bent in the butting.) There s little that s graceful about the ram, unless it s his smooth way of handling a crisis (which never fails to surprise people who underestimate him). The bone Structure is fine and strong, and few Aries people slump. Their posture reflects their supreme ego and self-confidence. If you see an Aries with drooping shoulders, he s probably a sheep type, who was badly hurt in the ego when he was young. It may take him some time to recover, if the wounds went deep, but he ll straighten up someday. You can count on it. Nothing keeps these people down forever, failure least of all. 
The Mars-ruled person will look you straight in the eye, with unabashed honesty and rather touching faith. You re his friend, aren t you? You like him, don t you? No? Then the tears will start, but ins de. He ll never show it on the surface, if he can 


help it. If you see him openly weeping, you can be certain that he s been cut to the very soul in some way. Aries would rather be caught dead than becaught weak-and some of them literally risk the former to avoid the latter. 
The ram will seldom glance nervously around the room. When he does, he s no longer interested in talking with you. Something else has caught his attention, and for the moment, you are forgotten. So is what you re saying. Don t be offended. Remember the baby and his toes and fingers. 
He will undoubtedly be at the head of his chosen career or involved in a profession on his own. If he s not, then you can easily recognize him by the discontent he clearly shows at being forced to submit to others. You can look for a liberal attitude, lavish generosity with both time and material things, and a marked desire to lead all the marches -with loud cymbals. But don t look for subtlety, tact or humility. The average Arien was behind the barn door when those qualities were passed out. He s a little short on patience, too. In a coffee shop, he ll quickly criticize the waitress and the sandwich, if the first is fresh and the second is stale. But he ll probably leave an unnecessarily big tip when the service is good. 
Aries is very direct, to put it mildly. Deceptiveness and deviousness are entirely foreign to the Mars nature. Frankness and refreshing honesty are Arien trademarks, yet rams don t make the best credit risks. Some of them lack stability and evidence a child-like lack of responsibility. Even those who have matured can forget debts in the excitement of the ever-present new challenge of the moment, which will always consume their entire attention. They ll eventually pay their bills cheerfully and willingly, but you may be out of breath when you catch up with them. 
Although Aries is the firebrand, who forges his way through life with daring, initiative and enterprise, there s a strange quirk to his bravery. Hell face the abominable snowman or the Frankenstein monster without the slightest trace of fear, yet he can t stand physical pain. He s never a moral coward, but he can be a huge sissy about anything that hurts. The dentist is not one of his favorite people. 
Every Arien, at some time in his life, will indulge in rash behavior that brings an injury to the head or face. Cuts and bums are also likely, and severe or even migraine headaches, which could stem from kidney infections. The ram would be wise to steel himself and see that dentist regularly, guard his eyesight, watch his diet, treat head . colds seriously, and stay away from alcohol (not only | bad for the kidneys, but quite combustible when combined | with the Mars temper). Skin rashes, painful knee caps and | stomach disorders also plague those born in late March or | April. The ram s constitution is strong and tough, if he | doesn t abuse it, which he usually does, by ignoring it. | When you see him confined to bed with little to say, you | know he s really sick. Even so, it may require handcuffs to | keep him down. He can survive fevers high enough to kill | the average person, and many of them are brought on by | his headstrong Mars tendency to carry through under [adverse circumstances, at the wrong times with the wrong [people. The angry impatience and frustration this always [triggers is the real cause of his health problems. His re-| 



action to delay makes him ill, and the conscious cultivation | of patience and cautious deliberation would keep the | doctor away. Not that he ll take such advice. He keeps I the doctor away for years at a time anyhow, until he | either drops in exhaustion or reaches an age when he gets | more sensible. There s not much danger of an Aries be-| coming addicted to drugs. Normally, the ram won t even take a sleeping pill. He d much rather stay wide awake. (He s afraid he might miss something.) 
Because of his forceful optimism, Aries (along with the other fire signs, Leo and Sagittarius) seldom falls victim to the chronic, lingering diseases-which astrology has always taught and medical science now realizes are triggered or intensified by melancholy and pessimism. The fire signs are more susceptible to raging fevers, fulminating infections, strokes, high blood pressure and violently acute illness. Say what you will about his impulsiveness, the ram is seldom guilty of gloom. The seeds of depression, even if planted, will die a quick death in Arien soil. But that precious idea Aries holds, that no one else can do anything as efficiently as he can, may run away with him and lead to a thousand disasters. He ll carry through his schemes with dash and confidence, seldom realizing that he s overreaching himself and headed for ulcers or a nervous breakdown. No one ever accuses him of laziness. 
Because of their guileless nature, subtle tricks of strategy are impossible for these people. One Aries I know well, with his fiery, contagious enthusiasm, got a financial angel to back one of his original ideas. Just as the deal was about to be closed, and this ram was about to realize his fondest dreams, the angel logically suggested that a well-known expert oversee the operation. The Aries was positive that no one could run it as well as himself, and he was fearful of getting involved with someone from whom he might have to take orders, so he responded quickly, with the usual Aries humility. He waved his cigar in the air in a superior gesture, and asked bluntly,How do you want your no, fast or slow?The financial angel just as quickly withdrew his backing, and the poor Aries promoter soon developed a severe case of business leprosy. For many frustrating months, those who had formerly been behind him one hundred percent were mysteriously out to lunch or in Europe every time he called. 
A little tactful diplomacy could have kept his dream from exploding, but it takes the average ram many years to reach the diplomacy of an Arien like Dean Rusk. People who have arrived at the top through hard and patient work justifiably resent an aggressive Aries, who thinks he knows far more with far less experience. He learns modesty and humility only after many dismal failures. But once he s learned, he can make a project pay off like a gusher, adding stacks of creative ideas, and intuitively making the right moves. He reaches leadership only by first respecting those above him in credit and stature, yet success, when it comes, is normally gigantic and impressive. Strangely, most Aries people often create wealth for others rather than for themselves. Lots of rams pay rent most of their lives, and seldom own their own home. It doesn t seem to break the Mars spirit that cash doesn t always cling to him, perhaps because what he seeks is not necessarily in the bank. 


Though Aries pushes ahead with confidence, caring little for the feelings of others, and his attitude, especially in youth, isme first,he can be the warmest and most generous of all the Sun signs. He s not cruel. He just honestly believes that he can do anything better than anyone else, and he s psychologically unable to stand by while others fumble and flop. Give him a choice of money or glory, and he ll take glory any time. He s as fond of a dollar as the next person, but he s just a few shades fonder of praise and fame. The ram has a way of making instant decisions without the authority of his superiors. His speech can be satirical and cutting in invective. Arien anger flashes forth with the speed of sound, but it s usually gone before the victim knows what it s all about, and the happy, child-like smile quickly returns. One can t help being reminded of a t; certain impulsive ram, Nikita Krushchev, who once banged his shoe in a fit of childish temper, on a table at the United Nations, in full view of a television audience, and the devil-take-the-hindermost. He was being ignored, and what Arien cares about tact when he s being ignored? Yet this same Aries was truly heartbroken when he missed enjoying the magic wonder of Disneyland. 
Mars people are often accused of having a terrible temper. They have. But they also have a complete inability to remain angry, and once over with, the grievance is generally buried and forgotten. He s hurt and surprised that you still remember the rash things he said but didn t mean. Given the chance, Aries will apologize to his worst enemy, regardless of any dire threats he made in the throes of emotion. He seeks acceptance, even while he heedlessly and deliberately courts rejection. Aries people seldom become angry with individuals. You may get the shower of sparks, but the fire is actually directed toward an idea or a situation he finds intolerable. 
The ram is capable of trying to tell a small white lie, if it will put him foremost or save one of his cherished rdeals, but most of the time, he has little use for lies, which is fortunate, because he gets caught every time. Blunt candor is quicker, and since the main interest is in getting to the point in a hurry, he prefers to tell the truth. He has no time at all for gossip. That involves discussing others, and Aries is far too interested in himself to waste any excess energy speculating on the inner secrets, behavior or motives of anyone else. Besides, people are normally either black or white to him. He doesn t bother with the gray tones. Don t mistake this for prejudice, however. If he has heavy planetary afflictions of his natal chart, the Aries impulsive disregard for the facts may come forth in the form of cruelty or prejudice; but this is extremely rare. The typical ram will dine with beggars and kings with equal ease and genuine affection. Any reputation he gets for prejudice comes from his tendency to lump people into two distinct camps-his friends and his enemies-and he ll expect you to line them up the same way, if you re close to him. 
Despite his shocking forwardness, the ram can also be the epitome of social grace. He can converse for hours in an exciting, interesting manner on subjects he knows absolutely nothing about. There s a lot of surface polish to cover that aggressive Mars drive. Patience with detail isn t his strong point. He d rather leave the minor, petty sta-. tistics to someone else. That s sensible enough. Someone else would handle them far more efficiently. Time spent pinning down the facts is resented, 



because the ram cares nothing for yesterday s lessons, and tomorrow is too far away to worry about. Today is his natural residence. This hour and this minute. He s totally consumed in the action of the present. 
A realist, yet a decided idealist, Aries often defies emotional description. No one can show such tough, forceful behavior. Yet, few others are capable of such sentimentality, wistful innocence and belief in miracles. Mars people are literally incapable of accepting defeat. They won t recognize it-even when it stares them in the face. They re incurable optimists about the end result of anything from love to a baseball game. Being very clever in-fighters, the rams battle best with their heads, meaning their minds. They enjoy opposition because of the challenge it presents, and they ll go out of their way to meet an obstacle and conquer it long before it comes to them-and often when it might have been headed in the opposite direction. They don t wait around for success to drop in their laps, either, They ll chase it at a furious pace, which is why you ll find very few Ariens on welfare lists. 
Just thinking about the energy of the ram wears out most people. But Ariens are also capable of being calm, wise and serious when they choose. Unfortunately, they usually don t choose until youth has passed and maturity has mellowed their rash idealism and sense of driving haste. They can arouse popular sympathy easily, yet they don t necessarily make good politicians. Thomas Jefferson and Eugene McCarthy are rare exceptions to the rule. Of all the Ariens who have tossed their hats in the ring, most have had comparatively brief or troubled political careers. We haven t had an Aries president in the United States since John Tyier in 1840. The field of politics is difficult for the average ram. For one thing, he s not the very best economist in the world. For another, he s impulsive in his speech and he hates to hedge, both deadly traits for a politician. Most politicians wait to see what people want before airing their positions. The average Aries has his own ideas of what the people need, never mind what they want, and he ll see that they get it, sooner than might be politically expedient. Still, he s so idealistic that once the Arien has come before the public he fires their imagination and makes them believe in themselves again. The freshness of Mars candor can blow through the smoke of political back rooms like a breeze. 
But most Aries people are usually happier in business or the creative arts, where they re so desperately needed. Others may excel in planning strategy. Calmer heads and more practical minds may be better at efficient organization. But without the direct action, energy and originality of the rams, the most desirable projects would fall to the ground or make little headway. 
You may find an occasional Arien who is shy, but you ll 
, never find one who s uncertain where he stands. It s difficult to express your own individuality around these people. Aries is far happier when he s talking about himself and his plans than about anybody or anything else (with the exception of the loved one, when he s caught in the clutches 


I of a romance). Once you get his interest-and lots of luck-hell be an attentive listener, especially if your ideas are exciting and progressive. He ll promote you to the skies, and offer you his time, money, sympathy and loyalty. When you re in the hospital, he may forget to send a card, but he may choose the hospital for you, drive you there himself and refer you to his own doctor (who will be superior to Pasteur and both of the Mayo brothers, of course). Once involved in helping you through a rough time, Aries will walk the extra mile without hesitation. But show your gratitude, please. He ll be deeply hurt, if not downright angry, when you don t appreciate his strenuous actions, which went far beyond the call of duty, and also probably far beyond what you needed or wanted. He enjoys doing favors; the larger the charitable gesture the better; 
but the ram wants his credit when it s coming to him. If thanks are withheld, however, it probably won t keep him from helping again. His amazing faith in himself is matched only by his naive trust in others, which is why he s almost constantly disillusioned, and complaining that someone has let him down. Of course, he won t stay down long. He ll pick himself up, dust himself off, and soon be ready, willing and able to blast away again, after a typical binge of violent but brief depression. 
The ram gives such an impression of sincerity that it s startling to face his sheer audacity when he claims for a fact something he knows-or should know-to be untrue. Accuse him of dishonesty, and he ll look at you in amazement, with candid eyes open wide in utter horror that you could doubt him. He can wear blinders and ear plugs to shut out anything he doesn t want to believe. Even when his position is completely untenable, he ll bravely stick to his guns and work for the lost cause with earnest conviction. Still, he can change his mind about an opinion you thought he was born with in a moment of fast decision, and when he does, it s impossible for him to regain his former point of view, let alone remember it. His urge to toss the past in the trash can and go forward at full speed (one of the chief reasons he adapts to new locations and people so painlessly) makes him think those who try to reason with him are interfering with his progress. Then he s liable to throw what little tact he has to the four winds. The ultra conservative, who weighs every word and deci- sion, is maddening to the Mars souls, who can communicate their annoyance and frustration with clear and abundant meaning. So it s easy to see why they sometimes make such bitter enemies of older, wiser heads. 
Aries has an innocent wistful facet to his nature, and a kind of eternal, joyous, naive faith, blended with the blind zeal of the born crusader. Like the diamond, his Mars horns are hard, and tough to crack. 
He sees bright red frequently, but when the sparks have disappeared, he becomes as cheerful and openly friendly as the happy Arien daisy. His metal is iron, and its un- bendable strength gives him nine times as many lives tc live as others; nine times as many chances of winning the battle. The fire that consumes his spirit can be a flaming torch that lights the way to courage for anyone who recognizes his great 



idealism. 
He is the pioneer, always leading others onward to an impossible goal. His beautiful iron faith is pure-unmixed with the alloys of hypocrisy and greed. He seldom amasses a fortune, and if he did, he would be too busy to stop and count it. Help yourself to his money, clothes or time. He always has some to spare, however pressed or poor he may be temporarily. The ram knows that bread cast on the waters not only feeds his ego and returns again increased, but it makes people happy, one of the things he enjoy? most in life. To Aries, miracles are a dime a dozen. If you run out, hell make you some more, wrapped in brave, scarlet dreams. 
Famous Aries Personalities 
Dean Acheson Bismarck Marion Brando Charles Chaplin Ilka Chase Julie Christie Joan Crawford Bette Davis Thomas Dewey Bernard Gimbel Harry Houdini Henry James Thomas Jefferson George Jessel Nikita Krushchev Clare Boothe Luce 
Henry Luce Eugene McCarthy Andrew Mellon J. P. Morgan Wayne Newton Lily Pons Joseph Pulitzer Simone Signoret Harold Stassen Leopold Stokowski Gloria Swanson Lowell Thomas Arturo Toscanini Peter Ustinov Vincent Van Gogh Wemher von Braun 
Tennessee Williams 
The ARIES Man 
He said,I go my ways
And when I find a mountain-nil I set it in a blaze ... 
 So either way
I ll get into the garden,
and I don t care what happens.
That creature over there making a phone call-is it an electrically charged dynamo? Is it a flaming torch? is it a bird, an explosion-or is it Superman? Well, practically. It s an Aries male, which is pretty close. Let s hope you know what you re looking for. Should it be excitement, an Aries man will provide it by the bushel, with seldom a dull moment to blur the sparkle. But if you re looking for the security and 


contentment of a soothing love, you re in the wrong telephone booth. 
Aries can overwhelm you with passionate ardor one mintue, and be as icy as a polar bear the next. Insult him or lose his interest-either or both-and that warm, impulsive Mars nature will freeze instantly. To ignite it again may mean starting all over from Act One, Scene One. 
Aries men are fairly bursting with ideas and creative energy. Keeping up with him may be tiring, but keep up you d better. At least mentally. Aries has a way of leaving the snails behind and not glancing back. He ll probably look and act younger than springtime, which is all very delightful, but his youthful aura may carry over into his mental and emotional attitudes until he s matured, which won t be early in life. The Aries man is impatient with slow pokes, bold and confident, always ahead of others, and sometimes ahead of himself as well. He can be the soul of generosity, giving his time, money, sympathy and possessions by the carload cheerfully to strangers. But he can also be exasperatingly intolerant, thoughtless, selfish and demanding, when his desires are delayed, or he s forced to be around negative people. 
When it comes to love, his heedless attitude is absolutely amazing. He ll plunge into an affair, positive that this is the only true love ever known by any two people ever born, with the possible exception of Romeo and Juliet. When it breaks in half, hell pick up the pieces, and try every angle he can think of to salvage the dead romance. If it s beyond repair, hell start all over again with a new Juliet, and it will be like the very first time. No matter how many romantic mistakes he makes, the ram is sure his true love or soul mate is just around the next dream. Unless you re a Scorpio female, the Aries man is as passionate as any woman could ask. There s little left to desire. He s so idealistic and susceptible to sentiment, he ll squeeze all the tingles, sighs, ectasies and poetry it s possible to squeeze out of a relationship. Aries isn t capable of going halfway. He gives all of himself to the burning interest of the moment. 
You may be involved with one of the quieter sheep. Don t let him fool you. He s still ruled by Mars. He doesn t talk much right away? He s not openly exuberant and pushy? Yes, I know one, too. But take my word for it, if you could see inside that hard head, you would discover that his brain is spinning at approximately two hundred revolutions per second. Any time you meet this kind, one who doesn t at first appear to have the typical Mars drive, check the present record of the business he s conducting. You ll soon be convinced you re dealing with an Aries. Then ask his ex-girl friends. They ll probably answer with a giggle.Him? Bashful? Timid? You must mean someone else.After a while, you should begin to get the picture. That quiet demeanor is a mask for a fiery heart and a tough business drive. Naturally, it s easier when you re in love with a plain, simple ram, who makes it obvious just how enthusiastic he is about everything from potato chips to moonlight and motor trips. 
No other Sun sign can be so scrupulously faithful as Aries when he s really in love 



for keeps. His honesty will usually keep him from fooling you, and his idealism will keep him from wanting to. Promiscuity or even light flirtations are not an Arien habit, no matter what the books tell you. Not when he s deeply involved with all his heart. He s looking for a storybook romance, and storybook romances never include a casual attitude toward love and sex. Those other girls were B.Y.C.A. (before you came along). In fact, I know one Aries who frequently precedes discussions of yesterday with his current flame with,That wasB.U.(before us). 
Of course, you must keep alert to future possibilities, because as sincere as he is in his present devotion and promises of complete loyalty (which are undoubtedly abso- lutely true), his need for romance is so strong that he s capable of looking elsewhere if you don t keep his illusions alive constantly. The minute you let your mutual love lose its storybook flavor, he may wander off .the steady path. In case you re not sure, storybook love, to him, does not include going to dreamland at night with a female who has Vicks salve on her chest to clear up her cough. It also does not include watching your intimate personal toilette, such as polishing your nails, whitening your teeth, brightening your hair withblondes have more funbleach, peeling your sunburn, filing your nails or fighting with your mother for hours on the phone. Somehow, in his mind, this is not the way storybook princesses behave. And goodness knows, Juliet would never have sat with her feet up, chewing taffy and watching TV. Wear your perfume when he s around, and giggle with your girl friends when he s not. He finds it difficult to visualize himself as Prince Charming when he kisses you awake and you either snore, or shout unpleasantly,For gosh sakes, let me sleep, will you?Now, really, is that the way Sleeping Beauty would have acted when she woke up? Be prepared to greet him dewy-eyed and breathless each morning, fresh from your dreams, thrilled to find his handsome face so near. And let him know it. 
Aries males whose sweethearts neglect romance are heartbroken at first. Then they become angry. Then they go looking for a princess who doesn t snore and things like that. This isn t dishonest as far as he s concerned. He didn t break a promise. You did. You made him think you were a lovely nightingale, singing in the moonlight, like it says in his favorite song. Now he finds out you re a chattering squirrel or a nagging blue jay and the jolt rouses him from his heavenly world of angelic choirs and bells ringing every time he touches your hand. How can bells ring when your hands are always full of dirty ashtrays, and how can he hear choirs when you re screaming at him that he stayed out until after midnight for two nights in a row? (Which he did, of course, but who are you to think you can dictate his every move? Marriage is not a prison, and you are not his warden-that s his attitude.) 
If you leam how to open your eyes and look at him mistily and all the rest of it, he ll stay with you happily, and ignore every female on earth for you. The ram is highly unlikely to commit himself physically to more than one woman at a time (unless there s a Gemini ascendant or some Venus affliction in his natal chart). It just wouldn t fit his image of one true and lasting love. The decision to break off the old will always be made before becoming too deeply involved with the new. You ll 


have plenty of warning. An Aries man can rarely pretend a passion he doesn t feel. This alone prevents any undue amount of deception. Besides, now you know how to keep him inside the pages of that storybook. 
Just don t be dull, negative or overly timid. To hold him, you ll have to be a combination of Grace Kelly, Ursula Andress, Marie Dressier, Madame Curie and Queen Victoria, with a little bit of Clare Boothe Luce thrown in. No one princess will ever satisfy his image of the ideal. It s quite a trick to convince him you re superior to all other females, but it will keep him spotlessly faithful, if you can swing it. It s really worth a try, because, if the Aries plunge into romance is headlong, his race out of it is equally reckless. He s both an idealist and an egotist, which means he hates to admit he s wrong, or that the love he chose could die. Still, always remember that he s capable of finding situations unbearable that others would consider par for the course. After a separation, if you catch him in the right mood, you can fire his romance all over again, if you act as if there had never been any previous intimacy. You ll have to play hard to get, because he loves a challenge. To make it easier to forgive him, if trouble ever arises, remember that any straying was due to a sudden impulse after his nightingale stopped singing in the moonlight, not to a deliberate seeking of casual variety. Adultery is actually distasteful to his honest nature. Don t fret about the future. You have the magic key to his heart. Lock it. 
If you have any ideas about playing games with him by flirting-drop them. Your first indiscretion will probably be your last. You can lose him with just a whisper or an intimate look at another man, let alone any actual infidelity. 
He insists on being first in everything, and you can bet your old pressed gardenia this includes being first in your heart. Aries is possessive and jealous in the extreme. Only a Leo male can get wilder at the thought of a transgression on the part of his beloved. To make it worse, the ram will never give you the blind faith he expects you to give him in such matters. You ll simply have to understand that his animated conversations with other women are innocent, because he ll demand all the freedom of social contact he denies to you, and then some. Your Mars lover will glue you to a pedestal, and expect you to stay there. Don t move a single toe. Don t even look as if you want to. 
The Aries male is a natural rebel. He loves to defy authority and he thinks he was born smarter than anyone else. Perhaps he was, but most people don t relish being told so. Thanks to his rash way of pushing his superiority, he s liable to fall flat on his face more than once. Because of his need to lead and refusal to follow, those in more powerful positions will teach him frequent lessons in humility. At these times, you re way ahead, because he ll run to you for comfort and assurance when his ego is bruised. Then you ll leam that, beneath his self-confident, aggressive front, lies an inferiority complex he d rather die than admit having. The woman who handles his shattered confidence with gentle and total devotion has the best chance of keeping his heart permanently. Never make the mistake of agreeing with his momentary enemy, or trying to be fair and seeing the other side of the controversy. You must 



love what he loves and hate what he hates. He demands the same fierce and unquestioning loyalty that he gives, in both love and friendship. It s his code. Unless you honor it, find another man. 
There are no subtle tricks in the Aries nature. It s not at all hard to recognize when a Mars man is finished with a relationship. The ice and boredom in his voice and manner will be unmistakable, and will usually be accompanied by a frank statement that makes it crystal clear. On the other hand, an explosive flame of scorching anger is less serious, signifying that his displeasure is probably just a passing mood, and the romance can be saved. You have more reason to fear his ice than his fire. 
Aries males don t like games. Hell be direct in all his approaches. And that means in romance, as well as in business. He won t waste a second, once the love has been recognized, but be sure to let him be the one to recognize it. Don t chase him, phone him frequently, get starry-eyed or declare your feelings until you re absolutely sure the passion is mutual. The quickest way to lose him is to make the first advance. He must be the leader here, as elsewhere. If you don t allow him to be, he can lose interest so fast it can astonish you and crush you at the same time. Once you re each firmly committed, however, don t be too cool and casual, or he ll seek attention somewhere else. Love with an Aries man is like walking a tightrope between warm interest and aloof detachment. You practically have to be a trapeze artist. Don t run after him. Don t run away from him, either. Stick a penny in your shoe, carry a four- leaf clover and wish on a star. That will get you as far as any normal, methodical strategy. Maybe farther. You have to keep him guessing, even after you re his. At the same time, he needs the assurance that your love is always there. Learn to live with it-or learn to live without an Aries. 
On the plus side, although your Aries lover will insist on being first in the relationship, he ll also be the first to say he s sorry after a quarrel, and the first to be there when you need him. He ll be right by your side when you re ill or unhappy. He ll spend money on you freely and willingly (if he s a typical son of Mars). He ll compliment your appearance, appreciate your talents and be a stimulating mental companion. Although he can be bossy and lose his temper over a trifle, he ll seldom let the sun go down on his anger before making up. You may be the most important thing in his life, but he ll expect you to know that, and wait for affection and attention when he s all excited by some new idea which is consuming his interest. He wants to be your whole world, but unlike other men, he ll let you share his world, if you re his equal. 
The Aries male will expect his lady fair to be ultra-feminine and a tomboy at the same time. He wants you to be completely independent, yet willing to stay a few paces behind him. He ll expect you to praise him and be devoted to him, but never play the role of humble slavey. Are you still with me? Good. Brave girl. There s more to come. He s capable of saying bitterly cruel and sarcastic things to you when his ego has been wounded, things he won t mean at all, but which may break your heart if you don t understand him. Then he ll expect you to forgive and forget as readily as he does. You ll have to like all his friends, while he reserves the right to 


be bored by yours. Well, you wanted a man, didn t you? You ve sure got one in your Aries mate. If you re a real woman, your love affair can be the envy of everyone in town, just like Romeo and Juliet (without the tragedy, of course). 
Once you ve married him, the Aries male will dominate the home or leave it. He won t stand for being nagged in public or private, especially about bow he spends his lettuce. He earned it, didn t he? It s his money, isn t it? (Sometimes that possessive pronoun can stretch to include the money you earn, too.) He may not balance the budget too well-and I m being kind to put it so tactfully-but don t take it over yourself, even if you made straight A s in math. Never question his financial affairs. It s essential that he control the purse-strings all the way. He ll be generous with his cash, if he s a typical Arien, and give you whatever you need. You can have that cobra skin handbag after he s bought that alligator brief case, if there s anything left over. (He may be a little selfish, but he s never stingy.) 
Though the ram may change jobs frequently until he becomes his own boss, he won t let you starve. He ll find a way to keep the dollars flowing in, even though they may flow out again just as fast. Better save a few quarters in the blue china pig and surprise him with it when he needs it most, because he s not likely to salt away much of his earnings himself (unless he has a hidden asset, like the Moon in Capricorn or Cancer, or an ascendant which dictates economy). 
Each new baby will find him behaving like the devoted, proud papa of your dreams. Later, he may be a little bossy with the children, and try to dictate their careers. He ll be a warm and wonderful fun daddy, but he might have to be reminded that the youngsters need independence as much as he does. Fatherhood is definitely a role he ll enjoy. Baseball, talks about the birds and bees, football, father-daughter dinners, the whole works. Just don t let him think little Herman or Henrietta is more important to you than he is, however, or his enjoyment of the role may cool considerably. 
Go ahead and continue your career after marriage if you like. He probably won t resent it, as long as you don t outshine him. It s easier for him to forgive instant suppers or quick-frozen kumquats than to forgive your lack of faith in his ideas. That s important to remember. 
Encourage his independence, but try to curb his impulsiveness-tactfully. He must lead or life is worth little to him. His great and bubbly enthusiasm can die a sad death if you douse it with wet blankets or short circuit his positive energy with negative thinking. The minute he loses authority on the job or in the home, his refreshing optimism will turn to moody discontent and finally, complete disinterest. It s not his nature to submit. He s a man s man. Never destroy his masculinity, but never lose your own individuality. Don t try to push him around, and don t let him push you around. An Aries husband won t put up with a wife who runs around to club meetings every night. Neither will he tolerate a wife who sits home and crochets bedspreads and tablecloths all day. You ll have to aim somewhere in the middle. If you re successful, just think- you ll be the only white-haired Juliet in your 



crowd some-day, with a husband who s still sentimental on your golden wedding anniversary. That s quite a challenge if you re a romantic, and of course you are, or you wouldn t be in-; volved with an Aries man in the first place. 
The ARIES Woman 
 But aren t you going to run and help her?
Alice asked... 
 No use, no use!said the King.She runs so fearfully quick 
you might as well try to catch a BandersnatchT* 
So you re in love with an Aries girl. I don t know whether to congratulate you or sympathize with you. 
When Byron wrote thatMan s love is of man s life a thing apart;tis woman s whole existence,he forgot about j& the Aries woman. She may think love is her whole existence, but she s too vitally absorbed in the world around her, not to mention in herself, for it to be the beginning and end of her life. She can get along without a man easier than any female you ll ever meet. 
Of course, getting along without a man is not the same thing as getting along without romance. She ll always need that hero of her dreams to yearn for in her heart. He may be long ago and faraway-or hiding just out of sight and touch, somewhere in tomorrow s mists-but she ll think about him in an April rain. He ll haunt her when the first snow falls, when she hears a certain song or sees lightning flash. However, while she s yearning, if there s no male around in actual physical presence, she won t miss him terribly. Anything he could do, she can do better-she thinks. 
The Aries girl will open her own doors. Shell also put on her own coat, fight her own battles, pull out her own chair, hail her taxi and light her cigarette without any masculine help. Doing it herself is, to her, the fastest way to get it done. Naturally, this doesn t set too well on the vulnerable male ego. The Mars girl is determined to take the lead, to be the first to move to action, and that includes the action of making the first advance in romance. Aries females are the most likely of all the Sun signs to do the proposing, especially if the man is slow about naming the date. And that s about as early as you can safely show your feelings-when she proposes. Before that you re taking a chance. Be very careful about moving in on an Aries girl. She wants to be the leader in the love affair. Better be sure you have her heart safely in your pocket before you try to grab her around the waist and kiss her goodnight. Other- 


wise, she may give you a sharp right hook to the jaw and run like a frightened deer. 
Don t be misled. The reason for her running isn t maidenly modesty. She s not afraid of your passionate intentions. Those she can handle. Her flight is based on the fear of getting tangled up with a worshiping slave or a lovestruck puppy dog, either one of whom would bore her to tears. Be casual, keep her guessing, and the chances are shell chase you into a comer instead. A man who resists her impact always intrigues an Aries female. She can t understand why she isn t overwhelming him with her obvious charms. Then her Mars ego will leave no stone unturned to prove she s desirable, even when she has no lasting interest in him. 
Scariett O Hara is the very epitome of the Mars-ruled 
Aries female. Like Scariett, the Aries girl will gather every available male for a hundred miles around to her feet, while her willful heart yearns for the one man she can t have for one reason or another. Like Scariett, the Mars woman can quickly adapt for survival if necessary, without whimpering. Both the O Hara and the Aries characters are tough enough to defy convention, face an advancing army, or even shoot a man through the head with icy calmness, : if he threatens her loved ones. 
Never was Scariett more Mars-like than when she was starving, alone and friendless, and without waiting for a man to come to the rescue, she clenched her fist toward | heaven and shouted,I ll survive this . . . and when I do, I ll never be hungry again ... If I have to lie, cheat, steal i or kill-as God is my witness, I ll never be hungry again!| Much later, her emotions shattered, her beloved child dead ] and the one man she loved about to walk out of her life, | this typical Aries woman was still able to say,I ll think of some way to get him back. There s never been a man I couldn t get, once I set my mind on him. . . . After all, tomorrow is another day.
Yes, Scarlett O Hara creates a vivid image of the first \ Sun sign of the zodiac, with all the Mars strength and ability to bounce back after tragedy; able to play the female role to the hilt, with fluttering lashes and a well-timed tear, but just as able to take over a man s job when the men aren t around. A careful study of Scarlett s character can give you an excellent understanding of what you re in for with an Aries woman-and naturally, also the rewards you can look forward to after you ve been brave enough to claim her. Her aggressive drive may be hard to take, but her shining optimism and faith in tomorrow can be mighty uplifting. 
The Aries girl is rather a pushover for flattery, if it has an honest base. Let her know you admire her, but don t be too flowery or sugary about it. Her loyalty in love is gigantic, as long as you keep the sentiment alive, for she is deeply sentimental. There s the typical Arien contradiction in her: she doesn t want to be obviously chased, yet she quickly loses interest if you re too detached. She doesn t want a completely domineering male, but neither will she warm up to a man who sits adoringly at her feet. Before love can bring her happiness, the Aries woman must meet the eternal Mars challenge-her strong desire to control the lover, conflicting with her secret wish to be controlled by him. Unbelievably idealistic, sometimes she 



searches in vain for that brave knight in shining armor, who will sweep her off her feet, conquer the world, hand it to her gently and yet never sacrifice his manhood. Since he exists only in fairy tales and the myths of King Arthur s court, the Aries woman often walks alone, without a star to guide her. Her days are bright and full of excitement, her nights are sometimes dark and full of longing. Yet, when her defeated dreams become smoldering ashes-just as you think the flame is dying, Aries leaps up to build another fire. 
She must be proud of you to love you. But don t be so important that you neglect to notice her talents and abilities. Though she ll demand a lot from you, she ll give double measure in return. The Aries girl can be generous to a fault with her time and sympathy, cheerfully sharing her possessions and money, but when it comes to love, she s downright stingy.What s hers is hersin the romance department, and it will take very little to set off a jealous explosion. Don t admire your favorite movie actress in her hearing, or pay too many compliments to her girl friends. The man with an Aries wife is safer with a male secretary. If she s not first with you in every way, you ll soon wonder where all the intense passion and thrilling emotion went so fast. When the Aries woman has been really hurt, she turns from fire to ice. Her fire bums hot and dies quickly. Her ice can be eternal. Memorize that, if you care deeply about her-and it s doubtful that she ll stand for you caring about her any other way. Aries plays for keeps. 
She puts the loved one on a pedestal, expecting him to live up to an impossible image of perfection, stubbornly refusing to look at his clay feet, until they become too muddy for even her to miss. Never criticize the lover, husband or children of an Aries woman unless you re wearing an asbestos suit. She s capable of being demanding, selfish, and making cutting remarks when you dampen her hopeful plans. Yet, she can also be gentle, devoted and cooperative when she s met halfway. 
Since she prefers the company of men to women, and solicits admiration from every male she meets, be he nine or ninety, you ll have plenty of chances to feel the stabs of those little green monsters of jealousy. Forget it. As fiercely possessive as she is of you, she won t put up with your possessiveness of her for an instant. The Aries girl insists on complete freedom, before and after marriage. You ll have to trust her wherever she goes and whatever she does, though she won t have that kind of faith in you (unless she s learned the hard way to keep her emotions under control if it kills her, which it almost will). It s not as bad as it sounds, because she ll be faithful, once she s really yours. An Aries girl is seldom able to love two men at the same time. She s simply too honest for such deception. Barring unusual circumstances, she ll let you know clearly that love is dead before going ahead in total commitment to someone else. 
This woman is capable of deep passion and mystical idealism, woven together in strange patterns. In any relationship she feels is real and forever after, there will be no holding back, no feminine wiles, coquettish tricks or silly games. Her love, like her speech and actions, is direct. There s something clean and fresh about the utter simplicity of her emotions, but even so, they often get her into waters way over her 


head. You may have to tame her a little, but she ll accept It with surprising docility if she really loves you. 
Mars females are often career girls. They can handle almost any profession a man can handle, from stockbroking to real estate. They can also turn a nice ankle or profile in strictly feminine occupations like modeling and acting. It may be difficult to get her to give up her job for you, if it s a real career or profession. She may toss it overboard for a period, while she s suffused with the glow of romance and picturing a storybook cottage for two beside the sea (typical of the Arien imagination that leads straight to the happy part and ignores the dull part). But when the cottage begins to need a paint job, the roof starts to leak and the first fine rapture dims slightly, she may be anxious to dig out her social security card again. Let her. She ll be far happier and more loving-even more gentle-if she s allowed to fill her idle hours with something that interests her. Mars emotions, unfulfilled, can look for molehills of frustrations to build into huge mountains of trouble. 
There s practically nothing this woman won t tackle. If it s a challenge or just something she thinks she wants to brighten her life, she ll make some kind of a stab at it whether it s practical or not. I know an Aries woman who was forced for financial reasons to live for several years in , two rooms with a husband, five active children and a dog. 
That kind of an arrangement can get a little cramped, and just contemplating it might give a woman with any common sense a few doubts. Not a Mars female. This one coped somehow, though she may have let it goad her into a few tantrums. In the middle of the situation, when an astrologer read her natal chart and pointed out that her planetary aspects showed a long period of great hardship in her life, she was puzzled and intrigued.When does it look like it might happen?she wanted to know. 
This same impulsive Aries woman got a sudden urge one day to add another dog to the group camping out in two rooms. She felt the family s male pet needed a female companion. He looked lonesome. Besides, the children thought it was a rollicking good idea. The discovery that the second dog wasn t housebroken threw her only temporarily. Like a determined drill sergeant, she assigned every member of the family their turn at scrubbing the carpet. After she saw that it would never be the same again, she surveyed the situation and made a decision. To get rid of the second dog? Of course not. She was secretly hoping there would be puppies someday soon. The money would just have to come from somewhere to get a new rug. Funny thing-it did. As for the puppies, she was sure some miracle would happen to move the entire crowd into a new apartment before the happy event. Funny thing-it did. Miracles have a way of happening to those who believe in them. Aries women certainly believe. Sometimes to the point of foolishness. Her rash ways can get her into some complicated pickles, and she may have a few gray hairs before she leams how to avoid the same pickle twice. Aries is not noted for learning from experience. The spirit is willing, but the disposition is headstrong. There s no use to try to caution a typical Aries female with the biblical warning,Pride goeth before a fall.



Her interpretation of the phrase, since she first heard it in Sunday School, isWhen your pride goes, you fall.
Never worry that your Aries girl will succumb to the charms of a wolf. She s immune to wolves and playboys, and in far more danger of being seduced by an idealist with a cause, preferably a lost cause. But even with him, she ll assert her individuality frequently. It will never be completely conquered in the Mars woman, though it can be subdued by the right man. She ll buy you gifts, loan you money, nurse you through illness, and help you get a job. 
And she ll expect the same from you. 
She ll deny it vehemently (she does almost everything vehemently), but when she s miserable, you should be miserable. When she s happy, you should be happy. To Aries, love is equal sharing. She ll expect to share your razor, your bank account, your friendships and your dreams. In return, you can share hers. Of course, her razor may be broken, her bank account a little overdrawn, her friendships slightly scattered and her dreams too large for you to swallow. But she s not selfish with them. Keeping a secret from her can drive her wild, and it s not a good idea to drive an Aries wild. Don t ever embarrass her by your grammar, clothing or behavior in public. She won t embarrass you, at least not in these matters. 
To injure her pride or dampen her enthusiasm will almost break her heart. Others will constantly be doing just that to her. The world resents a female who talks back to it, and who thinks she s smarter than everyone else. When she discovers she really doesn t run the universe after all, she ll come running into your arms in tears, her world all dark and dismal. Then you ll have a chance to see her as she really is, defenseless and vulnerable in the extreme, for all her outer confidence. She s not really Tugboat Annie. She d just like to be. She admires strength and tries to imitate it. The Aries idealism and optimistic faith in human nature is often dashed to bits by reality. Comfort her with tenderness at these times, and you ll probably never lose her. Always defend her against her enemies. She can never forgive you if you fail to fight for her or take her side. (But be prepared to make up with them when she does, which may be quickly.) At least she s layabout it. She ll also defend you. An Aries woman will throw away fame or fortune defiantly right in the face of anyone who hurts a friend of hers. If she loves you, her indignation will have no bounds. These women are nothing if not loyal. 
As a wife, she may be quite a handful. There will probably be outside interests, because home will seldom be enough for her creative energies. Don t expect her to be a happy little cricket, chirping away contentedly by the hearth. She ll be a competent enough cook, and she ll keep the house spanking clean-at least the part that shows. She ll sew on buttons and iron shirts, too, but she won t like it. Still, she ll do it when it s necessary. (An Ariesoman can do almost anything when it s necessary.) Her re is more like that of a glittering diamond than like the ?arm, comforting glow of the fireplace. There s undeniably brittle side to her nature, and she may agitate you more ften that she soothes you. But she s exciting and certainly 


ever boring. Then there are always those moments of oftness that belie her strong drive-for a man who has tie patience to bring them out. Mars women are always ofter inside than any but those who have been really close 3 them ever know. Her conversation will be very intelli-;ent and very frequent. Don t hide behind the newspaper .t breakfast. She ll expect companionship from you, or you .an just scramble your own eggs. 
You ll rarely find her complaining of illness or fatigue. iut when she s in pain, she ll expect tons of sympathy. Mthough you may have to sit on her to get her to go to >ed when she has a raging fever, be prepared to wait on icr hand and foot when she has a toothache. 
This is not the woman to call and tell you ll be working ate at the office, unless you enjoy creating Fourth of July ireworks in the middle of February. She won t mind keep-ng the gravy hot, but she won t like not knowing where /ou really are, and what you re really doing, and she may ;all back to find out. The Aries wife will probably make an ixcellent impression on your boss, if you can keep her from :elling him how to run his business. She won t mind going :>ut to bring home the bacon when you re temporarily out ~>t a job, but she can never respect a man who makes less money than she does (though an Aries woman would never leave a man for this reason-she d be more inclined to make excuses for him). If she has a rare spell of letting herself go, the first word of disapproval from you will send her flying back to the mirror and perfume bottle. (In this way, she s as feminine as Eve herself.) A flattering comment about your secretary s new hair style will do the same thing, but it s more dangerous. Besides, you were warned to hire a male secretary. There s a vain streak in a Mars woman which makes her sensitive about everything from her age to an innocent remark about how tired she looks, which she may take as a hint that you think she looks like an old hag. 
Keep the passion and romance alive in your marriage, or she ll be miserably unhappy. Aries will waste little time changing any situation which causes unhappiness, and that can lead to a hasty separation or an impulsive divorce. In most cases, letting her handle the family checkbook would be unwise, but you can try it, if the bank is game. 
As a mother, she ll see that the baby is clean, happy, healthy and loved. She probably won t pick him up every time he cries, fuss over him or over^protect him. But her children will get lots of warm, impulsive kisses and bear hugs. An April mother will teach her youngsters to believe in leprechauns. She ll take them for walks in the park, and point out the sparkling necklaces left on the lawn by the fairies when they danced under the moon where others might see only the early morning dew on the grass. Aries women create a magic world of fantasy for their children. It s where they live themseves. She won t be a permissive parent, she ll insist on strict discipline, and will probably be very fortunate in raising her offspring to be independent adults. Her favorite weapons of child psychology are: a wooden paddle, bedtime stories and goodnight kisses. 



This woman can be unreasonably temperamental, and create some violent scenes. But her quickly aroused temper will splatter like summer hailstones and soon melt away. She ll never hold a grudge, seek revenge, indulge in self-pity or bitterness. After an emotional storm, her optimistic, April nature will return like the rainbow suddenly appearing after a shower. Lots of people will tell you an Aries woman is completely masculine, but don t you believe them. She s all woman underneath her flashing, forceful exterior, perhaps too much woman for the average man. But, of course, a knight in shining armor isn t an average man. Are there any lonely, courageous knights out there? This is the fair lady of your dreams, worth all the dragons you ll have to slay to win her. 
Don t forget that she bruises easily, in spite of her bright, brave smile. (That s just her shield against hurt.) If you can turn the ram into a lamb, you ll have a woman who is honest and passionate, loyal and exciting-though she may be a little impulsive, bossy and independent. Well, you can t have everything, you know. The Aries girl will help you find your lost illusions and she ll have a fierce faith in all your dreams. You don t have any? Borrow some of hers. She has plenty to spare. If you believe in her just hall as much as she believes in you, you could make some miracles together. 
The ARIES Child 
 All I know is something comes at me , Like a Jack-in-lhe-box And I go up like a Sky Rocket]
While Papa is passing out the cigars, the crimson-faced little Aries baby will yell for attention in the bassinet. How dare you ignore him and talk to the nurse? Who s the boss around here anyway? 
You won t any more than get him in the taxi on the way home before that question will be emphatically answered. Your Mars infant is the boss. Do you have any doubts? They ll fade away when he s old enough to sit in the high chair and bang his spoon on the tray if you leave him alone too long. He ll never tease you or be subtle about his preferred diet. There s not a subtle bone in his strong, active, broad- shouldered little body. The Aries tot will spit out his vegetables as if they were shot from a cannon, and rub the cereal bowl on his tiny, bald head to make it quite clear that this is definitely not the food baby likes. The girls will be as direct in their actions as the boys. Maybe more so, though you hardly expect such fierce determination from a soft, little miss. Did I say soft? April s metal is iron, and April s stone is the diamond, the hardest substance known to man. 


He ll probably walk earlier than other babies, and certainly will talk earlier. He won t be easy to control. Say,No, no,to an Aries toddler, and he ll shake his chubby little finger right back at you in defiance. Discipline should be started quite young. Be on guard against falls and injuries to the head or face. He s accident- prone, to put it mildly. Keep sharp knives out of reach, watch out for burns and scalds. If there s anything hot or forbidden around, you can just bet the Aries child will stick his curious fist in it impulsively. You think that will teach him a lesson? Not this youngster. He ll try to break his own record. 
Teething time may be feverish and severe. Baby will come through the ordeal with little difficulty, but will you? . 
When he gets a little older, you may get the breath squeezed out of you with one of his loving bear hugs. Aries children are usually affectionately demonstrative, except for the few Mars youngsters whose early emotional experiences freeze their normally warm hearts. These are the sad, quieter little sheep. But their horns are just as dangerous. 
Better not ask relatives to babysit without warning them. If poor Aunt Maude bravely takes him while you have a brief vacation, things could become a little strained. She ll catch your Aries tot with his busy hand in the sugar bowl, and probably make the mistake of stamping her foot in displeasure. That will both surprise and outrage the little ram into stamping his own small foot, and bursting out with his first complete sentence,AuntMod -don t you tell me sumpin .So quaint. Bet she won ttell him somethingagain soon. (You might have to come home a little early. He broke his big toe when he stamped his foot.) 
As he grows older and stronger, after having fought measles, mumps, chicken pox and scarlatina, and won hands down. (a battle with germs is no contest with the quickly recuperating Mars nature), your Aries child will begin to show a pattern of temper. You ll notice that he or she can be most unreasonable when thwarted, but the anger won t last long. After a periodic explosion, the Aries boy or girl will beam a large, bright and winning smile your way. 
He ll share his toys with amazing generosity with you, his playmates, the mailman, the neighbor s bulldog and the alley cat. However, his generosity will end if one of them hurts his feelings or gets in the way of something he wants to do or somewhere he wants to go. Then look out for fireworks. 
Aries boys and girls may fall into the early habit of neglecting homework, and using your more obedient little Capricorn, Cancer, Virgo or Pisces child as an example will hardly impress him. (I m assuming you don t have more than one Aries offspring. The planets don t do that to parents very often.) Instead of shaming the Mare youngster into studying, challenge him. He ll lap up a challenge like that favorite stray alley cat of his laps up cream. Just tell him (or her) that he s probably just slow, or not as bright as the other students, inferior in some way, but you don t mind. You love him anyway. Myl- How .the dust will fly off those schoolbooks, as 



he sets out to prove what a ridiculous theory that is. Someone who can top him? That will be the day-or night. 
After you ve watched the magic of such strategy at home, tip off his teacher. She ll get down on her knees and thank you. If she has more than one Aries student in her class, she may send you a five-pound box of candy. Actually, Mars youngsters can learn anything in nothing flat, never forget it, and breeze through their studies, if they apply themselves. Not all parents know how to accomplish this. They may spend years wondering why Mike and Maggie test with such a high I.Q., and still manage to stay in the third grade for four years. They needn t worry too much, however, because little Mike and Maggie will make up for lost time with the speed of a bullet, once they get out in the world and find out people are smarter than they are. A couple of humiliations to the Mars ego, and they ll cram so fiercely, they ll skip a few grades. 
Your April youngster will have a vivid imagination; he ll be as dreamy and sentimental as a storybook, but he ll know very well how to get his bread toasted at the same time. If there is such a contradictory thing as a hard, practical idealistic dreamer, it s your Aries child. He s as naive as he is tough; as gentle as he is pushy. All these conflicting traits are woven into his fiery little nature. You ll marvel at it and wonder about it. So will your friends later on, not to mention his boss, his future enemies and the unsuspecting soul he marries. 
Aries children will take the lead with playmates, start new games and invent new ideas for the gang. They ll insist on having their own way or butt their heads against authority, so you d better decide to set down some firm rules in the beginning. The Aries child who isn t trained to obey in his youth will be taught some crushing lessons in maturity. Remember that his heart is as soft as butter, and it hides deep- seated fears of being disliked and unloved, despite his brave front. Rejection of his bright dreams or dampening of his exciting enthusiasm will send him running home to you in tragic tears. Hold him very close when this happens. His heart will be broken. For all his rash domineering ways, the Aries idealism is sensitive and it bruises with the slightest bump. He ll be getting plenty of - those bumps on his naive, hope-filled optimism during his lifetime, and he needs more protection against them than you might think. 
He believes in fairy godmothers with magic wands, and giants who can topple over whole cities with one sweep of a powerful hand. Unfortunately, Aries children naively identify with these two omnipotent types. When they discover that there are giant killers out there in the brutal world-and blunt realists, who can make those magic wands pathetically impotent, they ll take some hard tumbles. But they ll get back up, brush themselves off, and push forward again indefinitely. They ll teach that dull, unimaginative old world a thing or two! There may be a few sears before it s over, but don t count your Mars child out of the fight, no matter how many times he s knocked down. Wait for him to hollerUncle.You may have a long wait. 
Hide birthday presents in a safe place. Hell be impatient, and unwilling to wait for 


surprises. Don t destroy his faith in Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny too soon. To first believe fiercely, and then leam not to believe, toughens his emotions. It s a necessary lesson. His allowance will burn a hole right through his pocket, but he ll cheerfully give you his last dime for the milkman. Your Aries daughter may pay the neighborhood bullies a nickel a day to stop stepping on ants. An Aries child handled harshly in the impressionable years can show a defensive cruel streak, but guided gently and wisely, he ll insist on his rights with less force, and show a gigantic generosity and sympathy for his fellow man. Don t give him orders, always ask him to do things with a cheerful smile, and he ll knock himself out to please you. Never destroy his confidence. It s as important to him as the air he breathes. He may run away from home; the Mars independence shows early, but he ll come back wiser. Teach him that it s unkind to dominate meeker youngsters. He truly does not want to be unkind. 
Being around cold, negative people can wound him deeply, but nothing will ever break his spirit. (Remember the diamond.) He ll probably be wild about books and be an excellent reader, yet he may not be anxious to settle down to four years of college. Aries is too interested in getting into the action of chopping down all those challenging beanstalks. But don t give up too quickly. He can use the additional discipline of higher education to help his mind catch up with his flaming emotions and sudden, puzzling bursts of sharp intuition. The more he balks at the idea of a rigid scholastic schedule and prefers the freedom of trying out a few jobs, the more you can be sure he needs the schedule. 
He ll have to leam responsibility, but you ll teach him this and other things faster through direct logic and honest affection. Both appeal to him. Parents and teachers should never forget that Aries children glow under praise and doggedly proceed to top their own efforts, but they sputter like firecrackers under attack and lose all incentive to try. Tell him what you like about him, and he ll do less that you don t like. Aries youngsters live up to exactly what s expected of them, including those who hide their burning drive under a calmer personality. This child must always be kept busy, or hell wander into trouble. Idleness spells danger. He needs stacks of sleep to renew all that scattered, misplaced energy. 
Hell love stories about brave, shining heroes who conquered new worlds. But he also believes in leprechauns and wishing wells, and he ll continue to believe in them long after you ve bronzed those little Aries baby shoes and welcomed the first grandchild. If you lead your Mars child gently, with constant love, he ll grow up with the wonderful power to dream the impossible dream-and make it come true. 
The ARIES Boss 



 Well now that we have seen each other,sad the Unicorn,if you ll believe in me, I ll believe in you. Is that a bargain?
The Aries boss won t be popular with lazy employees. If you re looking for a temporary soft spot to fill in the time while you seek a permanent career, or a place to pick up a little spending money during a lull in your life, you d be well advised not to work for an Aries. This man simply can t abide half-hearted work or a lack of enthusiasm in those around him. He ll expect you to be as devoted to the company as he is, and just as intently concerned with its future potential. He ll probably hire you fast, promote you fast-and point out your mistakes just as quickly. 
If he suspects you are coasting, you re liable to get a blunt and direct-to-the-point tongue-lashing, with no feelings spared, but you ll also get a second chance, perhaps even a third or fourth one, if you admit you re wrong and promise to do better. You might as well be prepared to work overtime for the Aries boss frequently. He ll expect it. On the other hand, if he s a typical Aries, he probably won t frown at the clock or glance at his wristwatch when you arrive late in the morning or take an extra half hour or hour for lunch. He s not a clock watcher himself. Because of his highly individual personality, he ll understand that you can t turn on creativity like a light switch at nine in the morning and turn it off again at five in the afternoon. He s a boss who will often ask you to work an extra Saturday, but he s also likely to accept the excuse of your grandmother s funeral when you want to attend that baseball game, though you d get the time off just as easily by telling the truth. He can see why, on sudden impulse, you d like to root for your team on a spring day. 
Though he ll usually be generous with vacations, salaries, raises and all such matters, he ll fully expect you to drop everything-personal plans, emotional ties, travel commitments or what-have-you-if something of great importance pops up at the office. I hate to say it, but I do know of one Aries boss who had a business crisis requiring the round-the-clock services of a valued employee. The fact that the business emergency occurred on a day this employee was. scheduled for an appearance as a bride was incidental. What if she had made plans for six bridesmaids, a flower girl, a ring-bearer, and a reception for three hundred afterwards? 
The Aries boss couldn t understand why all that couldn t be postponed, including the honeymoon, for an urgent meeting concerning a million dollar deal which could put the company on the big board. He would be willing to delay his own marriage for such a crisis, so why wouldn t you? What s the matter, aren t you loyal? This is admittedly an extreme case, but you ve been warned. 
It s a rare Aries boss who isn t more lavish than the ordinary employer at Christmas- time. Depending on how strong an Aries he is, you can count on getting a larger boius check than your friends in other offices-or even a hard-picked, expensive gift, which could be something yol ve been wanting for a long time. A Mars boss is not 


likdy to be stingy (unless there s a conflicting Moon sign or iscendant). 
He s not as susceptible to flattery as other astrological sigis, but it won t hurt you to pay him a sincere compli-meit now and then. If you let him know in a straight- forvard way that you appreciate him as an employer, you adnire his efficiency and you think he s just about the smirtest boss in town, your job security is guaranteed. Hovever, do or say this only if you really believe it and me.n it. He will have contempt for an employee who gui?les his praises just to make points, while he s secretly doibtful of the ram s ability to head the company. The Arts is not ordinarily a good judge of character, but he g so ensitive to other people s opinions of him that he can prety well tell if he s disliked by those around him day aftff day. To be liked is his secret need. You might never guss it from his self-confident air and his brave front, butundemeath all that swagger he s desperately in need of theapproval of his fellow man. That includes you, his wife and his dog-even the stranger on the elevator. Despite tha surface independence, nothing makes him happier thai to be looked up to and recognized as the capable peron he knows he is. On the other hand, nothing can male him as depressed, cranky and sometimes downright pety as suspecting that those who work for him dont appove of his methods or don t realize his value and pot.ntial. 
I you hear a rumor that the company is about to go baikrupt, don t look around for another job too quickly. Yoi may not need a new job, after all. If anybody can puU thecompany out of trouble, save it at the last minute from finacial disaster under the most dire circumstances, and male the entire operation seem rather like Moses parting theRed Sea, it s your Aries boss. He s independent, daring anc venturesome. His drive (unlike the more emotional dire of the Scorpio) is vital, from the spirit, and almost alwys idealistic. (He may lose out to the equally deter-rniied Scorpio pitted against him, however, and be unable to natch the steady ruthlessness of Pluto- though hell recover from the loss and win somewhere else.) 
Aries initiates. If there s a suggestion box around the office and you drop in enough workable, creative ideas, you re almost sure to advance to a high position quickly with this man. He appreciates employees who care enough about the company to make suggestions and who are original in their thinking-as long as they make it perfectly clear they have no intentions of trying to outshine him. 
Will power is one of the strong features of the Aries man. He fights off all minor ailments and he won t give in to serious illness either. Sometimes he can delay or entirely prevent disease by sheer positive thinking. If he does have a cold or virus infection (probably accompanied by a high fever), he ll get dressed to come in to the office for some urgent business and by the time he arrives, the fever may be gone, to the mystification of his doctor and the suspicion of his employees that he was really at home goofing off. 
The Mars will is so fantastically strong that your Aries boss (who will probably be fairly lucky at gambling) can go to the racetrack and practically root his horse into the lead. You re bound to feel the effect of such a forceful personality, so expect 



plenty of fireworks, excitement, chaos and intense activity around the office. Your business day will seldom be uneventful. Something will always be happening. 
There will be nothing lethargic about him, and there had better not be anything lethargic about you. Your Aries employer will probably have little interest in any previous bad job record you held before or in the reasons why your former boss may have fired you. He s the best bet to approach under these circumstances. Because of his conviction that he s going to make the future what he wants it to be, Aries is seldom bothered or concerned by the past. Yours or his. 
The Mars executive is too proud to let others know they ve hurt him. In spite of quick outbursts of temper (which won t last long or be vindictive, and will be for- gotten as soon as they re over), he will hide quite well those things which truly affect him deeply. The ram won t admit his dependence on anyone but himself. He does need others-far more than he will ever admit, but his , strength comes from inside, and he can always find a way . of going it alone when he must. 
If you can admire his energy and courage, though you find it impossible to imitate; if you can make up for his impulsive, slapdash ways by patiently filling in the details he s overlooked in his haste (and do this unobtrusively), he ll probably pay you more money than you can make anywhere else and you ll be with him for life. Tactfully attempt to keep him from doing or saying rash things hell regret later. Remind him gently that those to whom he directs his temporary righteous anger may be Very Important People and they could react in a way whch will hurt his business if he alienates them. 
That s the important thing to remember about your Aries boss. In spite of his great independent spirit, when his idealistic, optimistic enthusiasm gets him in over his head, he really needs your help, faith and loyalty. Give these to him in abundance and you ll never find a pink slip in your pay envelope. You won t have to worry when missing a taxi in rainy weather makes you late for work, if you need an extra^week s vacation time for an operation-or about someone younger and more efficient replacing you. More than any other kind of boss, he ll repay loyalty with loyalty. Keep a full supply of aspirin in the desk drawer for frequent emergencies, polish up your smile, don t take his outbursts seriously-and you can throw away the classified ads. You ll want to stay where the action is. 
The ARIES Employee 
 / scad it very loud and clear I went and shouted in his ear 


And when I found the door was locked 
I pulled and pushed and kicked and knocked. 
 But it s no use going back to yesterday Because I was a different person then.
A job interview with a prospective Aries employee, if he s a typical ram, might run something like this: 
EMPLOYER: I see from your resume and references that you ve been with six different firms in the past two years, Mr. Bootsikaris. 
ARIES: Call me Charlie, Mr. Flaxman. Yes, I believe in trying to advance myself. When you outgrow a job, what s the point of staying in a position where there s nothing more you can learn and nothing more you can contribute to the company? 
EMPLOYER: That s just what bothers me, Char-uh, Mr. Bootsikaris. I m afraid you may outgrow us in a short time, also, after we ve spent the money to train you. 
ARIES: I thought that might concern you. But you don t have to worry. I ve investigated your company, and I m sure I wouldn t feel restless, because I can see there s plenty of opportunity with you for anyone who really tries. I ve always wanted to work with a really great, creative and progressive management. They re so rare that I d rather waittil there s an opening here than go anywhere else. 
Needless to say, the boss who can overcome his initial shock at such an unusual interview is likely to hire the Aries on the spot. That kind of sincere enthusiasm for the • company is hard to come by in these days of seeurity-; minded and union- conscious employees-never mind the [ abruptness and the superego. 
Hiring an Aries can be the smartest move you ever made | or the largest headache you ve ever known, depending on , how you aim this combustible, misguided missile. Aiming I him toward a routine, nine-to-five job is the wrong direc-| tion. In the beginning, he may shine like a silver dollar to | impress you, but it won t be long before he s restless and | unhappy. And he ll let you know it in unmistakable ways, | like coming in a little later each day, taking extra time for | lunch, or writing personal letters at his desk. These are [ all danger signals that your Aries employee is not satisfied. | He s still extremely valuable to your firm, but he s bored, j and when the ram gets bored, his virtues are quickly buried F under his shortcomings. 
Put your Aries worker in a position where he has complete freedom to make decisions, answerable if possible, only to you. If you can do it without hurting office morale, allow him to come to work at odd hours. After a short period you ll notice that, although he may appear as late as ten or eleven in the morning, or take two hours for lunch, hell also be the very last one to leave at night, especially a if there s extra work to get out. He s more likely than any of your other employees to accept 



additional assignments as a challenge, without complaining. 
Many an. Aries will labor until the wee small hours, if it s necessary, or if there s an exciting project under way, and probably be more familiar to the nightly cleaning woman than to the early morning switchboard receptionist. You won t find him getting edgy or peeking at the clock around five o clock, so why should you be fussy if it s twenty minutes past ten when he arrives in the morning? That s his reasoning, and there s a certain logic in it. 
The Arien is constitutionally unable to keep to a tight and uniform schedule, regardless of standard office procedure. His great, creative energy comes on him at all hours, and it can t be adjusted to fit someone s idea of the proper working day. He may ask to leave early some afternoon for pressing personal reasons, but hell come back later the same night to bum the midnight oil, or pop in before the birdies chirp the following morning to make up the work he s missed. One thing Aries can t stand is to turn in work which is less perfect than he knows he can do. Despite his carelessness with detail and his disdain of normal office routine, that quality is too good to miss. It s worth putting up with the Mars independence to take advantage of his wonderful determination to succeed, which will obviously benefit your company, if you re astute enough and patient enough to utilize it properly. 
Money is never his prime reason for working. He will insist on being paid what he s worth (what he thinks he s worth) for the sake of ego and status, but money is never his main objective. He s motivated by success, and cash is always secondary. He may frequently ask to borrow money, because the ram usually lives beyond his income. Still, an extra pat on the back will often get more out of him than an extra five dollars a week in his pay envelope. Of course, you may have to tame his natural desire to take over everyone else s department, since he s bursting with ideas of how everyone in the firm could get where they re going faster, including you. But if you can leam not to take offense at his frequent and impertinent suggestions, youll find a bonus of original and profitable thoughts. 
Always put Aries in the action job, in a position where he can get out and promote the firm and mix with people. Never put him behind a desk where he has to do the same thing day after day under the scrutiny of another employee. Aries will take orders willingly from very few people, since he believes very few people are superior to him. He undoubtedly thinks you are, or he wouldn t have gotten mixed up with you in the first place. Once he s sure you understand and appreciate his efforts, he ll probably be the most loyal, hard-working and competent employee on your payroll. But put him in an inferior position and he ll be reluctant to make any but the most perfunctory effort. 
Naturally, he can t always start at the top, though he d like to. If he must begin at the bottom and learn a new trade or profession, try to add some kind of important- sounding responsibility to his daily duties, so he ll at least think he s at the top. It allows him to save face with himself. To bring out his best, he needs to feel that the place couldn t run without him. The ram is a natural promoter. He ll promote your 


business to his wife and friends enthusiastically, to cab drivers, waiters and anyone else who will listen-at the movies, in the swimming pool-and not just during the hours he s being paid to do so. He ll turn everyone from his broker to his insurance man into a booster for your firm. Few people (except Leos) can equal him in bringing in new accounts, saving customers you thought were hopelessly lost and putting over the largest, most ambitious schemes you can devise-especially when he thinks you re depending on him to come through. 
If there s ever any kind of financial trouble, your Aries employee is not one to desert a sinking ship. He ll stick with you through the crisis, and possibly add a few ideas of his own about how to solve it. The Arien is literally unable to conceive that anything or anyone he believes in, including himself, can fail. Obviously, such a trait can be mighty welcome some black day. 
Ask this employee to work on weekends or holidays, take a temporary cut in salary during an emergency or perform someone else s job in addition to his own in case of illness or vacation, and he ll seldom complain. Just be sure you thank him warmly and let him know you honestly appreciate it. There s little he won t do to get enthusiastic approval from you. Never give someone else credit for work he s done, never make him feel guilty about being late, don t compliment others too often when he s around, don t harp on his mistakes-especially in front of other people-and never give him the impression you wish he d stay in his place. Otherwise, he ll be irritable, frustrated and lazy. You won t have to fire him. He ll most likely quit before you get around to it. It s usually not necessary to scold the ram, anyway. He ll be the first to apologize for errors he s committed through his natural haste and impulsiveness, if he s met halfway, and he ll sincerely try not to repeat them. Even if he s not always successful in that attempt, his intentions are admirable. You may want to train him tactfully and privately not to be so rash and over-confident, but never break his spirit. If you try, you ll fail, and the attempt will just lose you all that refreshing and valuable optimism. 
When you recognize his talents, Aries will literally knock himself out to top himself. Criticism will never accomplish its intended purpose with him. Besides, he s more often right than wrong with his hunches, no matter what some of the experts who have been around for years might think. Aries has an uncanny ability to understand today with a clarity not possessed either by those who cling to yesterday or those who pin all their hopes on tomorrow. So it pays to listen to him, even though his eagerness and his sureness that he s right makes him drop his manners now and then, with a loud and unpleasant thud. 
As soon as you can, give him a raise or a title to let him know he s doing well and that you re pleased, and by all means, as quickly as you can, let him either work alone or lead others. Let him feel he s your personal associate. It s imperative that those dealing with an Aries in any working or professional capacity realize that he will pour out an amazing number of valuable contributions to the project at hand only if he feels that, in some way, he s important. When his excitement and his idealism are dampened, he quickly loses interest, becomes disheartened and stands 


back to let others take over-glum and miserable-an unnecessary waste of rare and useful talent. Unless the ram is allowed to promote, create and originate, he s no use to himself or anyone else. Logic and kindness will reach him every time. 
Because he s a natural innovator and leader, Aries is at home in almost any career or profession. There are no special places where he thrives best. Whether it s a green- house or a police station-whether he wears a fireman s hat or a surgeon s mask-he must be in charge. The fields of advertising and public relations attract him, since they give him a chance to promote, and he takes to selling like a duck takes to water. But you can place him in any job, from teaching to trucking-from broadcasting to building -and he ll fit right into the slot, if the slot is wide enough to take up his excess energy and ego. 
You may run across a ram who hides his drive under a calmer, more controlled manner, but don t kid yourself into thinking you can push him into the corner. That s for little Jack Horner, not him. His place is in front-avant-garde. Channel his abilities and he ll make a heap of money for you, as well as give you unswerving, unquestioned loyalty-especially when the chips are down. If you do a little comparative shopping around, you ll find those virtues are cheap at half the price. 
 / shall sit herehe said,on and off, for days and days.
Moon in Aries
Nothing quite happens soon enough with this position of the Moon. There is an inherent impatience with getting what they want. Life is a series of emergencies for Lunar Ariens. They live in the moment and have a hard time waiting for things to happen. Whims of the moment take absolute precedence in their lives.
This is a fiery position of the moon. Even if the Sun or rising sign is more low-key, Moon in Aries people possess inner passion and fire. Emotional issues take precedence–there is simply no pussy-footing around when it comes to dealing with the feelings. And, dealing with new sentiments and needs stirs up a huge desire for activity. Moon in Aries has a need for acting out their needs, with no time to waste. It is hard for them to see the long-term, or to wait for things to happen. Instant gratification rules!
Oddly enough, this is a very defensive position of the Moon. These natives take things very personally, and they deal with problems by facing them right away so that they can then get on with other things. Their flare-ups generally end almost as quickly as they started.
Lunar Ariens have an unmistakable independent streak. They put themselves right out there in the world, and make an impression in whatever they do. Their self-confidence is actually variable. Although a strong personality is projected, Moon in Aries people go through plenty of ups and downs. Their moodiness is not like Cancer or Pisces moodiness–they don t withdraw into themselves or escape the world when they re down. Instead, they are temperamental.
Some might say that people with Moon in Aries actually enjoy trouble and confrontations. Indeed, this position is easily bored with environments that are too peaceful. Their homes–especially their childhood homes–are often battlegrounds. They rule the roost, or at least want to, and are not the most peaceful of folk to live with!
Moon in Aries men and women are prone to have plenty of crushes and other short-lived yet intense desires. “Needsand “wantsare indistinguishable to Lunar Ariens at any given time. In their minds, what they want is so powerful that it becomes an absolute need. In young adulthood, they can be dangerous with a credit card. Whoever offered the advice to freeze your credit card in a container of water, and then let the block of ice thaw before using the card, unwittingly had people with Moon in Aries in mind. The whole idea was to see if the shopping whim of the moment would pass by the time the card was ready to use. Still, with this scenario, I wouldn t be surprised to see Moon in Aries hacking away at the ice. That is, if Aries actually takes the advice in the first place!
Others will appreciate that people with Moon in Aries rarely sulk or play any drawn-out games of manipulation. You can pretty much know what they want at any given time. They are generally ruled by their own emotional needs, and they re not always as concerned about othersneeds during these “emergencies . Somehow, they have people around them scrambling to help them solve their problems. There s an aura of childlike innocence around Lunar Ariens, even when they re getting their way again, that can be charming indeed!
Sun in Aries
Aries sun natives can be inspirational, courageous, enthusiastic, original, independent, impatient, aggressive, headstrong, selfish, self-centered, and impulsive. The Aries person s energies are directed toward building a new individuality, thus all the Ariesenergies are directed towards themselves and what they want. An Aries likes roles where their leadership abilities are put on display. Aries natives have executive and organizing ability which is mainly directed in starting things. Sustaining projects is not their strength, but initiating projects is. The tendency todamn the torpedoesand ram full-speed ahead must be controlled. Aries natives are capable of great accomplishments if they learn how to constructively use their abundant energies. Aries natives are naturally enthusiastic and are always ready for activity and competition. They are inspiring to others because of these tendencies. Ideas and creative projects seem to flow from them in a never-ending stream. They are full of energy and never lack courage.
Because Aries natives can be pretty self-centered, they must remember that other people may have good ideas and can assume responsibility and leadership roles, too. The natural tendency for an Arian is to stand alone and do everything themselves. But cooperation with others can be very effective in getting things done to the end rather than simply starting things and quitting before completion. Aries natives have a tendency to start a project, then to suddenly lose interest in it if progress is too slow or things have become too complicated. 
Aries natives are very straight-forward and are neither subtle nor devious. They say what s on their mind and they pull no punches. They don t hold grudges and although they can get quite angry, they do not hold it in and stew about what bothers them. They blow in and out like some great Midwestern thunderstorm. It may be violent while it lasts, but it is usually over quickly.
Aries natives are prone to headaches due to tension. Aries natives are usually aggressive in relationships and generally take the lead. They go after what interests them and the chase may be more fun for them than the conquest.
Four things an Arian should learn are patience, conservation of energy, completion, and control of temper.


The first sign of the Zodiac, Aries are the trailblazers. Passionate and independent, Aries will never do something just because everyone else is doing it—a Ram needs to be 100 percent committed to the task at hand. Competitive to the max, the best way to motivate an Aries is to turn something into a contest. Aries will put everything they have (and then some) into winning. Loyal, smart, and impulsive, they always have multiple projects on their mind, and won't be satisfied until their work, social life, and personal lives line up exactly with the dream life they've envisioned. Those who are drawn to magnetic Aries may have trouble keeping up—but if they can, they'll have a friend for life.
Have questions about your romantic future?  Start your love reading now
Have questions about your romantic future?  Start your love reading now
An Aries will always tell you what they're thinking, with a frankness that may occasionally border on rudeness. But even if an Aries seems overly blunt with their opinion, that's only because Rams value honesty above all else. And it works both ways. While an Aries may be the first to say if they think that you just phoned in a project, they'll also be the first to compliment you for a job well done. Rams may also have a short fuse. That fiery temper can be an asset. When an Aries is angry, they'll never play the passive-aggressive card. But for people who don't know them well, their temper can be a turn off. Learning how to work out their anger—whether by going to the gym every day, taking some deep breaths, or learning to chill before they Tweet their thoughts to the world—is a lifelong process for Rams.
When it comes to love, Aries are all about initial attraction. They can sense chemistry in the first sentence uttered by a potential partner. Forthright and unabashed, an Aries will do everything in their power to go after someone they want. Sometimes, they need to learn how to slow down and foster long-term connections. Fireworks are fun, but they don't necessarily make a great match. Aries are amazing lovers: versatile, passionate, and always invested in the moment.
Aries are amazing! Their name says it all:

A for assertive
R for refreshing
I for independent
E for energetic
S for sexy

Whether it's backpacking around the world, launching a business, or training for a marathon, once an Aries sets a goal, they will achieve it. They don't care what anyone else thinks, and can tune into their intuition and dreams in a heartbeat. Rams never need a plus one—they love their own company, and consider going solo to the movies a rare treat.
The world according to an Aries makes so much sense that they have a hard time listening to, much less accepting, alternative viewpoints. Slowing down is also tough. A Ram's mind goes a million miles a minute, and slowing down for others can be excruciating. But when it comes to maintaining relationships, Aries must learn to adapt and embrace other ways of doing, being, and seeing.
Strong, adamant, and forged in fire, it's fitting that Aries' secret weapon is iron, one of the strongest elements. Weld, cast, machine, forge, temper, harden, or anneal it, iron can take on a seemingly limitless range of shapes and qualities. For an Aries, an iron-rich diet can boost confidence and performance.
Big Sean, Marlon Brando, Charlie Chaplin, Joan Crawford, Leonardo da Vinci, Robert Downey Jr., James Franco, Robert Frost, Lady Gaga, Harry Houdini, Thomas Jefferson, Keira Knightley, Vincent van Gogh, Emma Watson, Reese Witherspoon


The Aries sign is represented by the symbol of a ram, reflecting their tendency to seek challenges head on.


Dates:Â March 21Â - April 19


Symbol: The Ram


Duality:Â Active


Element: Fire


Quality: Cardinal


Ruling Planet:Â Mars


Tarot Card:Â The EmperorÂ 


AriesÂ Zodiac SignÂ Personality

 Those born under the Aries zodiac sign tend to have high energy and a thirst for life, leading them to seek out challenging experiences that can push them to new limits. A typical Aries is very driven and curious, and has a strong sense of justice. They tend to be very ambitious and thrive in a competitive environment, whether itâ€™s intellectual or physical in nature. They are generally quite optimistic people, and feel very comfortable in leadership roles. 
Those under Aries often have a very positive attitude and are less inclined to feel pity for themselves than some other signs. At times they can be quite hot headed, and given their propensity to seek out justice, they can often find themselves in a lot of heated arguments. Having a one track mind, they also are very unlikely to back down from those arguments - they like to be right and have the last word â€” regardless of whether they are actually right or not. If harnessed properly, the fire that burns inside them is something that will fuel their actions, and will push them to become defenders for both themselves and others. 



Download Printable Zodiac Cheat Sheets
A black and white list of zodiac sign characteristics formatted for printers. Includes keywords, planetary rulers, symbols, elements and modalities.





Sign up to our mailing list


Enter Your Email





                
                    download
                
              












Positives of AriesÂ Zodiac Sign

Strengths: Brave, powerful, direct, independent, strong sense of justice, innocent, assertive, fearless, head-strong

People born under the Aries zodiac sign people love to be winners. Their competitive nature means that they usually succeed quite well in all areas of their life. If it is a case of working harder or smarter, those under this sign will always succeed. They like to be challenged which means that their lives are rarely boring or repetitive. Their enthusiasm can also reach into the lives of those they care about, by showing them new ways to do things and pushing them to meet their own challenges and make their lives what they desire them to be. Their positivity can mean their personalities are quite magnetic, bringing excitement to everything that they touch.
Aries never does anything half heartedly, so if you are spending time with someone under the Aries zodiac sign then you will feel the full force of their zest for life. Their argumentative nature and their desire for justice means that they will stand up fiercely for their friends and partners in arguments. You can always count on an Aries sign to do and defend what is right. 

NegativesÂ ofÂ Aries Zodiac Sign

Weaknesses:Â Aggressive, self-centered, blunt, pushy, inconsistent, selfish, loud, domineering, bad-tempered

Their rather aggressive and stubborn nature can sometimes be hard to handle. With less competitive signs there can be many arguments to be had. Aries can sometimes come across as arrogant and in need of attention because of their stubbornness and their desire to push people to challenge themselves.
They are also quite likely to get bored and this can frustrate some within their social circles - especially with other zodiac signs who are better suited to stable environments. Aries is a fire sign, and this can mean that sometimes people who are under the Aries sign can be quite hot-headed. 
They can get very single minded when working on projects and come across as selfish, completely unaware of how their actions affect others as they relentlessly push themselves towards their goals. They can also find it difficult to tolerate being patient with people who aren't as motivated or energetic as they are. Being quick tempered, they have little care for being diplomatic. 



Unlock the Wisdom of the Stars
Get the Claves Astrologicae, a 44-card astrology oracle deck. Use the zodiac, the planets, the houses and the phases of the moon to guide you.

View Deck




Love and Relationships forÂ AriesÂ Zodiac Sign
In love, Aries will bring all of their warmth and energy to their relationships. They can be very loving and intense partners, and definitely need others who share their passion for life. They are usually quick to fall in love, as well as quite direct with what their desires are. No guessing games are needed, which can be refreshing in the ambiguous age of tinder and ghosting. They love to pursue love, and go after what they want with the same drive that they bring to all areas of their lives. While they are great initiators, they are sometimes need a bit of encouragement to follow through - and this can usually be done with words of praise, so long as they ring true.
There needs to be a balance in competitiveness however, as dating another equally competitive person can cause some problems of power and dominance in the relationship. Because they like being leaders, they find it hard to tolerate being told what to do - pose questions, give suggestions, but always let them go their own way and pace. 
People who share the Aries sign tend to need a lot of activities to do with their partners to keep things interesting. They can sometimes be jealous, only because they seek the undivided attention of their lover. If they are secure in the knowledge that they play the biggest role in their loverâ€™s life, this possessive streak is less marked. They will be loyal lovers and their passionate nature means that they tend to feel deeply if they make mistakes or hurt their partners in any way. 


Friends and FamilyÂ forÂ AriesÂ Zodiac Sign
In terms of friends and family, Aries people can be very competitive with siblings and friends. However, they are also warm and loving with their loved ones. Whatever relationships they cultivate, they give all of their energy to those relationships. Their competitive natures, hotheadedness, and impatience can have a negative affect with their friends and family however. They can sometimes push people away due to this, but don't usually hold grudges. Aries people will be loyal towards their friends and family, not taking it well when they think that they are being threatened. 


CareerÂ forÂ AriesÂ Zodiac Sign
Given their propensity for competition, Aries people can get very far in life in terms of their careers. They will move up through the ranks faster than other signs, and will thrive in environments that encourage or reward their competitive natures. People who share the Aries sign make great leaders and love to be in leadership positions. They can deal with not being leaders, but if they disagree with their bosses, their sense of justice and aggression can make that relationship difficult. Their high levels of energy mean that they can work for long shifts quite easily. They also tend to be very good at keeping records, and being very particular with details.

Zodiac SignÂ Aries Cheat Sheet and Infographic

