
    executives


Good order is the foundation of all things.
Edmund Burke

Executives are representatives of tradition and order, utilizing their understanding of what is right, wrong and socially acceptable to bring families and communities together. Embracing the values of honesty, dedication and dignity, people with the Executive personality type are valued for their clear advice and guidance, and they happily lead the way on difficult paths. Taking pride in bringing people together, Executives often take on roles as community organizers, working hard to bring everyone together in celebration of cherished local events, or in defense of the traditional values that hold families and communities together.



Anyone Worth Their Salt Sticks Up for What They Believe Is Right...
Demand for such leadership is high in democratic societies, and forming no less than 11% of the population, it’s no wonder that many of America’s presidents have been Executives. Strong believers in the rule of law and authority that must be earned, Executive personalities lead by example, demonstrating dedication and purposeful honesty, and an utter rejection of laziness and cheating, especially in work. If anyone declares hard, manual work to be an excellent way to build character, it is Executives.
Executives are aware of their surroundings and live in a world of clear, verifiable facts – the surety of their knowledge means that even against heavy resistance, they stick to their principles and push an unclouded vision of what is and is not acceptable. Their opinions aren’t just empty talk either, as Executives are more than willing to dive into the most challenging projects, improving action plans and sorting details along the way, making even the most complicated tasks seem easy and approachable.
However, Executives don’t work alone, and they expect their reliability and work ethic to be reciprocated – people with this personality type meet their promises, and if partners or subordinates jeopardize them through incompetence or laziness, or worse still, dishonesty, they do not hesitate to show their wrath. This can earn them a reputation for inflexibility, a trait shared by all Sentinel personalities, but it’s not because Executives are arbitrarily stubborn, but because they truly believe that these values are what make society work.
...But Still Better Are Those Who Acknowledge When They Are in Error
Executives are classic images of the model citizen: they help their neighbors, uphold the law, and try to make sure that everyone participates in the communities and organizations they hold so dear.
The main challenge for Executives is to recognize that not everyone follows the same path or contributes in the same way. A true leader recognizes the strength of the individual, as well as that of the group, and helps bring those individuals’ ideas to the table. That way, Executives really do have all the facts, and are able to lead the charge in directions that work for everyone.
01


    Strengths & Weaknesses

Executive Strengths




Dedicated – Seeing things to completion borders on an ethical obligation for Executives. Tasks aren’t simply abandoned because they’ve become difficult or boring – people with the Executive personality type take them up when they are the right thing to do, and they will be finished so long as they remain the right thing to do.
Strong-willed – A strong will makes this dedication possible, and Executives don’t give up their beliefs because of simple opposition. Executives defend their ideas and principles relentlessly, and must be proven clearly and conclusively wrong for their stance to budge.
Direct and Honest – Executives trust facts far more than abstract ideas or opinions. Straightforward statements and information are king, and Executive personalities return the honesty (whether it’s wanted or not).
Loyal, Patient and Reliable – Executives work to exemplify truthfulness and reliability, considering stability and security very important. When Executives say they’ll do something, they keep their word, making them very responsible members of their families, companies and communities.
Enjoy Creating Order – Chaos makes things unpredictable, and unpredictable things can’t be trusted when they are needed most – with this in mind, Executives strive to create order and security in their environments by establishing rules, structures and clear roles.
Excellent Organizers – This commitment to truth and clear standards makes Executives capable and confident leaders. People with this personality type have no problem distributing tasks and responsibilities to others fairly and objectively, making them excellent administrators.

Executive Weaknesses




Inflexible and Stubborn – The problem with being so fixated on what works is that Executives too often dismiss what might work better. Everything is opinion until proven, and Executive personalities are reluctant to trust an opinion long enough for it to have that chance.
Uncomfortable with Unconventional Situations – Executives are strong adherents to tradition and when suddenly forced to try unvetted solutions, they become uncomfortable and stressed. New ideas suggest that their methods weren’t good enough, and abandoning what has always worked before in favor of something that may yet fail risks their image of reliability.
Judgmental – Executives have strong convictions about what is right, wrong, and socially acceptable. Executives’ compulsion to create order often extends to all things and everyone, ignoring the possibility that there are two right ways to get things done. Executives do not hesitate to let these “deviants” know what they think, considering it their duty to set things right.
Too Focused on Social Status – Executives take pride in the respect of their friends, colleagues and community and while difficult to admit, are very concerned with public opinion. Executives (especially Turbulent ones) can get so caught up in meeting others’ expectations that they fail to address their own needs.
Difficult to Relax – This need for respect fosters a need to maintain their dignity, which can make it difficult to cut loose and relax for risk of looking the fool, even in good fun.
Difficulty Expressing Emotion – This is all evidence of Executives’ greatest weakness: expressing emotions and feeling empathy. People with the Executive personality type get so caught up in the facts and most effective methods that they forget to think of what makes others happy, or of their sensitivity. A detour can be breathtakingly beautiful, a joy for the family, but Executives may only see the consequence of arriving at their destination an hour late, hurting their loved ones by rejecting the notion too harshly.

02


    Romantic Relationships

Executives are fairly unique in that their relationships don’t really change as they progress from the dating phase into more steady, long-term relationships and further into marriage. Because they value honesty and straightforwardness so highly, people with the Executive personality type are likely to be clear about who they are, what they’re like and what their goals are from the start, and to stick to those statements long-term. So long as their partner is able to take them at their word and follow suit, they are bound to be extremely stable relationships.



This Is the Chance to Do Something
This isn’t to say that there isn’t any growth of course – character development is always a high priority for Executives, and each life goal is important. Rather, it’s that shifting moods, goals and desires are unlikely to fundamentally alter the basis of Executives’ relationships.
There are certainly challenges, but Executives take their relationships seriously and are willing to put a tremendous amount of effort into ensuring that they remain strong and committed, and that effort pays off.
This may all sound a little stale, and indeed Executives are not spontaneous or unpredictable people, but they do very much enjoy taking their partners out and having fun. Social events and activities are Executives’ idea of a good time, and while they may rely on familiar people and places, they do bring lots of energy and enthusiasm, which helps keep things interesting.
Executives approach intimacy with similarly physical, active intentions, and from fairly traditional ones as well. Wild ideas and poetry are for less mature personalities, or so Executives might say, though they do appreciate recognition and well-placed compliments to maintain high self-esteem. They may look for more stability in their sex lives than most, but Executives never fail to bring their characteristic vigor.
This hints at a challenge in Executives’ relationships though, and that is emotional intimacy. Touchy-feely moments are few, as are verbal statements of love; this is usually fine, as Executive personalities find other, more tangible ways to express their affection. The problem is in recognizing the validity of those qualities in others, rather than simply dismissing them as pointless or irrational, something that can be extremely hurtful if Executives’ partners are more sensitive.
Pay the Price to Secure the Blessing
Executives address conflict head-on with simple statements of fact – a very rational approach – but subtlety and emotional tact are sacrificed in the process. While Executives’ level-headed, calm approach is appreciated by many, for others it is an uncomfortably direct approach. For all their social skills, Executives are especially bad at reading the emotional side of other people, and when it comes to their partners, it’s more important than ever to try to improve.
Executives are people of strong principles and strong self-confidence. They use these qualities to protect their partners with admirable consistency. But people with the Executive personality type are also stubborn, with a firm belief in their rightness, and they can quickly damage more sensitive partners’ fragile feelings. With this in mind, it is often best for Executives to find fellow Observant (S) partners in order to minimize communication barriers, with one or two opposing traits to balance their forceful character and provide opportunities for growth.
03


    Friendships

Executives are strong, traditional friends who appreciate loyalty and shared values. Friendships with the Executive personality type are often defined by their mutual activities and routines, by external factors, more so than the sense of intellectual or mystical compatibility that many Analyst and Diplomat personalities share among themselves. But this in no way diminishes the relationships – Executives’ friendships of dependability and mutual interest can be powerful connections that endure life’s changes with immutable constancy.
There Is No Pleasure in Having Nothing to Do...
Among their established friends, Executives show themselves to be outgoing and enthusiastic, always more than happy to bring others along for some healthy sport and outdoor activity. Executives sometimes get a little overbearing in their push for participation, but it’s just because they want everyone to have a good time. Executives’ friends are never short on invites to social activities and events, from tickets to a local ball game, to a weekend camping trip, to Sunday BBQ.



Executives seek strong friendships founded on trust and loyalty (though loyalty to family does come first). Active and with quick minds, people with the Executive personality type can’t ever be accused of not doing enough to fend off a little boredom. While Executives may not always be the life of the party, they know how to play their part in making sure their friends have a good time.
The way Executives establish and maintain their friendships does limit the pool though, as they tend to seek out people who are similar to themselves, who share their respect for traditions and institutions. Executive personalities are naturally stubborn, and it can be hard for them to find enough common ground with people who constantly disagree with their principles and beliefs to really form those ties of friendship.
...The Fun Is in Having Lots to Do and Not Doing It
Executives’ challenge in friendship isn’t about finding fun things to do or people to do them with, but in finding diversity in their friends and activities. For all their community participation, Executives struggle immensely in even fully listening to differing opinions, let alone befriending people who consistently express alternate viewpoints. Whether about local political issues or the validity of a more emotional, idealistic disposition than they think is reasonable, Executives should make an effort to truly understand these alternate viewpoints.
Simply put, it’s healthy for Executives to have some loyal opposition.
Exposing themselves to new ideas among acquaintances who think differently can do no harm – either people with the Executive personality type discover better ways and a stronger foundation, or they gain all the more confidence in their beliefs for having successfully defended them. Just as Executives may think those loners who spend their lives in their basements playing video games need to get out more, Executives themselves need to make sure they get out of their own bubbles of unchallenged opinions and beliefs.
04


    Parenthood

Executives’ mantra of “hard work, tradition, respect” is best exemplified in their relationships with their children. In many ways, people with the Executive personality type are the classic 50’s era father figure – very strict, and guardians of family traditions who have no trouble when it comes to enforcing the rules and standards they’ve established. Often seen as model citizens, Executives expect their children to carry that image, continuing the example they’ve set by being polite and respectful – insubordination is not tolerated.
Executives have a very responsibility-oriented life-view, a firm belief in the idea that one does what one can do in order to contribute to the family and community.
This view is of course extended to their children, and as soon as they are able, their children are expected to contribute in their own way, by cleaning their plates and their rooms and going to bed on time – by maintaining the order of things.



This inflexibility can become a challenge as their children grow into their more naturally rebellious adolescent years. Executives defend their own, and their relationships with their children are no different, but they expect their children to adhere to the structures they’ve put in place to ensure that protection. Executives enjoy creating secure, stable environments, and consider it an affront to have those considerations rejected – again, insubordination is not tolerated.
It’s not that they have wild, high-flying hopes of perfection for their children – Executives are down-to-earth people and simply want to see their children develop into respected, responsible adults. But Executive personalities also want their children to be strong-willed and capable, and that is something that can only happen when they have the chance to make their own decisions, and the chance to face the consequences of those decisions, good or bad, with the love and support of their parents.
I’ve Got Big Shoes to Fill
They may face challenges as their children learn to balance a growing desire for independence with the respect and adherence to their duties required of them, but Executives do have a clear advantage of consistency and direct honesty that never leaves their expectations ambiguous. It can be a tall order, but Executives’ children always know what they need to bring, and most will recognize and appreciate the dedication and hard work their parents brought in return.
05


    Career Paths

Executives’ career paths are often as clear and straightforward as they are themselves. Though there are many directions they can choose to go, people with the Executive personality type almost always end up in situations where they have the opportunity to exercise their affinity for organization, structure, and follow-through. Providing further focus, Executives share a profound respect for tradition, stability and security, qualities which lend themselves well to progressing along clear paths to increased responsibility and dependability.



Executives’ sense of loyalty results in them staying with a single employer as long as possible, and their reverence for established institutions often leads to work with well-respected organizations. Law enforcement, military service, hospitals and prominent legal firms are all able to recognize Executives’ long years of service.
Executive personalities rise to the occasion and meet their obligations with enviable consistency, making them clear choices for advancement.
Executives are the image of the model citizen, and they strive to maintain this ideal throughout their careers. This helps them move forward into management as well – people with this personality type have many traits inherent to leadership, something that is often recognized regardless of their chosen industry. From the genuine enjoyment Executives feel in organizing other people to their knack for clearly expressing their principles, values and expectations, Executives are extremely effective managers.
Also fearsome leaders, Executives loathe disorganization, ineptitude, laziness and especially dishonesty, and when these values are crossed, Executive personalities do not hesitate to let their disapproval show. So long as everyone plays by the rules, Executives are incredibly efficient, their love of structure and thoroughness leaving a record of accurate, complete work that is on time and on budget. Executives are natural auditors, financial officers and business administrators, and any such and similar roles are excellent choices for them.
To the Victors Belong the Spoils
Hard work and self-motivation are also strong Executive principles, which makes them excellent sales representatives, whether in basic retail positions, part of office teams, or as independent agents. People with the Executive personality type stick to projects until they’re finished, big or small, and are organized enough to make any necessary paperwork a mere minor inconvenience to their clients, rather than some baffling ordeal. These qualities combine to make the clear steps in advancement that Executives require in order to maintain a sense of accomplishment not just viable, but almost inevitable.
06


    Workplace Habits

Executives show clear and consistent tendencies, and these are especially visible in the workplace. Whether subordinates, among colleagues or as managers, people with the Executive personality type create order, follow the rules, and work to ensure that their work and the work of those around them is completed to the highest standards. Cutting corners and shirking responsibility are the quickest ways to lose Executives’ respect.



Executive Subordinates
Executives are hard-working and do things by the book. Though sometimes stubborn and inflexible, especially when presented with ideas that haven’t been fully developed, Executive personalities are open to new methods that can be demonstrated to be better. However, Executives are unlikely to do much experimenting on their own – adhering to stated responsibilities and fulfilling their duties is their primary concern.
Executives are also well-known for their loyalty and dedication, but in some ways this is contingent on their respect. People with this personality type are willing to voice their opinions, especially in deciding what is and is not acceptable – if provided with sensible responses that address their concerns, they are often satisfied with that. If Executives view their managers as illogical, dishonest or cowardly in their methods, they can be uncomfortably honest, if still calm and level, in voicing their opinions on that as well.
Executive Colleagues
Executives enjoy the hustle and bustle of well-organized workplaces. Honest, friendly and down-to-earth, Executive personalities are great networkers who enjoy connecting with others to get things done. Abusing this for advancement is unlikely, and is in fact something Executives frown upon. Shortcuts are irresponsible, and people with the Executive personality type lose respect quickly for those who try to push forward by showing off or promoting bold but risky ideas, making relationships with more inspiration-oriented colleagues a challenge.
Executives like to feel like they are a part of the team, and a part of the greater organization that they work for. To make sure this happens, Executives are nearly always willing to accept criticism that can help to improve their effectiveness, and always keep an eye on their surroundings to make sure they and their team deliver the results that are expected of them.
Executive Managers
Executives take genuine pleasure in organizing others into effective teams, and as managers they have no better opportunity to do so. While sometimes overbearing, even micromanaging, Executives’ strong wills also serve to defend their teams and principles against diversions and cutbacks, regardless of who brings them. Laziness and bad work ethic are not tolerated by Executives under any circumstances.
Executives project natural authority, but they sometimes expect this authority to be abided unconditionally, resisting change and demanding that things be done by the book. Whether Executives’ own book or the existing rules and traditions are used is subject to circumstances, but they do tend to rest on the security of tradition and precedent. Regardless, Executives’ expectations are clearly expressed, leaving little room or tolerance for deviation from the agenda.
07


    Conclusion

Few personality types are as practical and strong-willed as Executives. Known for their reliability and administrative skills, Executives are good at creating and maintaining a secure and stable environment for themselves and their loved ones. Executives’ dedication is invaluable in many areas, including their own personal growth.
Yet Executives can be easily tripped up in areas where their rational and practical approach is more of a liability than an asset. Whether it is finding (or keeping) a partner, learning to relax or improvise, reaching dazzling heights on the career ladder, or managing their workload, Executives need to put in a conscious effort to develop their weaker traits and additional skills.



What you have read so far is just an introduction into the complex concept that is the Executive personality type. You may have muttered to yourself, “wow, this is so accurate it’s a little creepy” or “finally, someone understands me!” You may have even asked “how do they know more about me than the people I’m closest to?”
This is not a trick. You felt understood because you were. We’ve studied how Executives think and what they need to reach their full potential. And no, we did not spy on you – many of the challenges you’ve faced and will face in the future have been overcome by other Executives. You simply need to learn how they succeeded.
But in order to do that, you need to have a plan, a personal roadmap. The best car in the world will not take you to the right place if you do not know where you want to go. We have told you how Executives tend to behave in certain circumstances and what their key strengths and weaknesses are. Now we need to go much deeper into your personality type and answer “why?”, “how?” and “what if?”
This knowledge is only the beginning of a lifelong journey. Are you ready to learn why Executives act in the way they do? What motivates and inspires you? What you are afraid of and what you secretly dream about? How you can unlock your true, exceptional potential?
Our premium profiles provide a roadmap towards a happier, more successful, and more versatile YOU! They are not for everyone though – you need to be willing and able to challenge yourself, to go beyond the obvious, to imagine and follow your own path instead of just going with the flow. If you want to take the reins into your own hands, we are here to help you.
08

