Leo (July 23 - August 22)
Roll out the red carpet, because Leo has arrived. Leo is represented by the lion, and these spirited fire signs are the kings and queens of the celestial jungle. They’re delighted to embrace their royal status: Vivacious, theatrical, and passionate, Leos love to bask in the spotlight and celebrate themselves. These lions are natural leaders, and they enjoy cultivating friendships and romances that are artistically and creatively inspired. Playful Leos have no problem leaning into drama-fueled romances that are perfectly suited for the tabloids. (In fact, they may even prefer them.) After all, every Leo perceives him or herself as a celebrity. These astrological divas never get tired of lavish dinners, exclusive parties, or decadent designer wear.
Leo is ruled by the sun, the dazzling celestial body that governs life and vitality. The sun never goes retrograde, and likewise, Leos are renowned for their stability, loyalty, and consistency. They are dedicated friends and lovers who put their heart into every relationship. (Fittingly, the Leo sign governs the heart.) Lions love to watch their mates succeed — until they feel threatened. They can become impaired by their ego, pride, and jealousy when they start to fear their star power will be eclipsed. It’s important for celestial lions to remember that their light is never obscured by others, and the bright shine of others' success does nothing to their own. Ultimately, Leos' own hubris is the greatest threat to their happiness.
This fixed sign is known for its ambition and determination, but above all, Leos are celebrated for their remarkable bravery. In tarot, Leo is represented by the “strength” card, which depicts the divine expression of physical, mental, and emotional fortitude. Fearless optimists who refuse to accept failure, Leos will find their deep wells of courage grow as they mature.
There’s an unmistakably regal air to Solar Leos. These are dignified–even noble–folk. Leos have a reputation for being conceited, but think again. Leos do feel important, but this generally takes the form of wanting to change the world in some way–to make the world a better place. They are generally motivated by affection for people, and often have big dreams and plans to make people happy.
Generally, Leos are hard-working. After all, they are attracted to the good things in life, and they know they have to work to get them. It is sometimes difficult to imagine Leos as go-getters if you happen to catch them in one of their languid moods. These people can sleep in, laze around, and luxuriate for long periods of time. However, when they do get to work, they do it with intensity and determination. In this way, they are not unlike their symbol, the lion.
The worst thing you can do to a Leo is accuse them of bad intentions. Displaying behavior that makes them think you don’t appreciate them runs a close second. These happy, jovial people become mighty hurt when others don’t see them for their noble intentions.
Loyal, and sometimes rather traditional, Leos are, after all, a fixed sign. They’ll hold on to situations and people for a very long time before they give up. There is an unmistakable idealism to Leo’s view of the world and the people in it. Often, Leos have a very noble inner code that they answer to. Although on the surface, Leos appear rather confident, they can actually be some of the most humble souls around. They are the first to blame themselves when something goes wrong. Once again, it’s the Leonine self-importance at work, and this characteristic works in unexpected ways. Instead of being the conceited, self-absorbed show-offs of reputation, they are usually very self-aware, self-conscious, and, yes, even humble.

How to Recognize LEO 
It looked good-natured, she thought; 
still, it had very long claws and a great many teeth, so she felt it ought to be treated with respect. 
Has anyone said to you lately, "Don't do me any favors," but dazzled you with an utterly gorgeous smile as he said it? You've been exposed to the big cat. Don't worry, you'll recover. What's a little scorched spot here and there? It's not at all unusual for Leo to display his arrogant pride and his sunny playfulness at the same time, which is why he gets away with murder. 
Leo, the lion, rules all the other animals. Leo, the person, rules you and everybody else. (Yes, yes, I know he really doesn't. But please don't tell him. It would break his big, warm, egotistical heart.) It's best to humor him. Then he'll purr, instead of roaring and scaring you half to death. The lion alternates between being energetically gregarious and beautifully indolent, as he stifles a luxurious yawn. If you want to study the beast, hit all the bright, sparkling places around town. At least half the people you see living it up in style will be Leos. The shyer pussycats will be at home living it up. Leo hates the dark and boredom equally. 
If you see one who blushes easily make sure you aren't getting a blush confused with a flush of pride or ego. There's more difference between a blush and a flush than a letter of the alphabet. His face may be pink because he's been dancing too hard. His cheeks may be suffused with a rosy glow because the love of his life just passed by. But his high color isn't caused by introversion or self-effacing timidity. There are no introverted Leos. There are only Leos who pretend to be introverts. That's important to remember. You may find a few lions who keep their ruling Sun 

dimmed and go about being strong, dignified 164 and determined quietly. Don't let that soft purr fool you. Even the gentle Leos are inwardly sold on their royal right to rule friends and family as they peek out from behind the curtains and watch for their chance on stage. If you don't believe me, just choose a quiet Leo who's pretending to be an introvert, and attack his pride. Take something away from him which he believes is rightfully his, give him orders and show him no respect. You'll hear that supposedly gentle cat roar from here to the zoo. It takes a brave soul to challenge him when he's defending his rights and his dignity. Some Leos mellow with age, but the lion never really lowers his proud head. Never. 
As for the physical attributes of this Sun sign, just look around for people who resemble a lion or a lioness, with a mane of hair that sweeps back off the face, and a deceptively lazy look. Leos walk straight and proud, with the smooth glide of the cat. The females combine lithe grace with a hidden, quivering intensity. This last will be disguised by a soft, usually calm and steady nature. But don't forget that the lioness is always ready to pounce if she feels threatened. Her claws are sheathed, but sharp. 
You'll notice a commanding air and stately bearing, as Leo looks down on all the mere mortals beneath him. Ordinarily, the movements and speech are deliberate. Leos seldom talk fast, run or even walk quickly (unless there's an Aries or Gemini ascendant or Moon, for example). You won't ignore the lion for long in a group. He'll either get the center of the stage with dramatic statements and action-or hell get it by pouting and sulking behind the potted palms until someone rushes over to ask what's wrong. The sign produces its share of blue eyes, but many Leos, especially the females, have dark brown eyes that are first soft and gentle, then snap and crackle with fire, often round in shape and slightly tilted at the comer. The hair is dark or reddish blonde and usually wavy, worn in a wild, careless style that upsweeps, stands out fully on the top and the sides or is sleeked down tightly, one extreme or the other, and there's a noticeable ruddy complexion. 
Leos have a strange effect on people that's downright funny to watch. It's hard to stand in front of the lion without drawing yourself up to full stature, stomach in- shoulders back. I really don't know whether we peasants do this in imitation of the royal manner of the Leo we're facing or to gather courage for a possible lecture, for they do love to give free advice. They have a knack for telling you with a slightly superior, condescending manner exactly how you should manage your life. 
This love of teaching is why so many Leos end up as educators, politicians and psychiatrists. The exasperating thing is that they're quite good at rationalizing things and smoothing out the wrinkles in your life. Too bad they can't manage their own affairs with as much ease and finesse. Still, this is what makes the lion so downright lovable; his honest superiority and excellent abilities, incongruously mixed up with a terrible, transparent vulnerability of ego. The proud, dignified cat vulnerable? Yes indeed. He's deeply wounded when you don't respect his wisdom and generosity. To subdue him, simply flatter him. Nine times out of ten, he'll turn from a roaring beast into a bashful, docile kitten, almost visibly rolling and basking in the warmth of 


compliments. It's this weakness which is the Waterloo for many a stem, autocratic Leo. His vanity is his Achilles' heel. Fattery acts like catnip to him, lack of respect blinds him with rage and both extremes make him incapable of balanced judgment. There are some Leos who control these tendencies successfully, but they're always latent in the Sun sign and present to some degree. 
Try it sometime. In the middle of receiving one of his lectures, interrupt respectfully and tell your Leo friend he looks positively magnificent in that sweater. The result will probably be an abrupt fall from dignity, as the lion blushes and says, completely disconcerted, "Really? You really think I do?" In most cases, appreciating the intellect works as well as complimenting the appearance. 
Leo just can't help feeling superior and behaving dramatically now and then. One of my children has an August-born teacher. She came home from school one day to say, "Mother, my teacher is so funny. He's awfully smart about everything, but sometimes he runs around the room and waves his arms in the air and shouts, 'I'm surrounded by idiots!' We always giggle, because we know he doesn't mean it." Poor lion, even the children know his roar is worse than his bite. It's only fair to remind you that you may stumble on one who has an afflicted Mars or Mercury with, say, Scorpio rising, and then the bite will be more serious, but we're speaking now of the typical cat In many ways, Leo is extremely astute. Hell seldom waste his energy trying to get water from a dry well, as Aries often does, which makes him a superb organizer and a wise distributor of duties. His commands are surprisingly effective when he tones down the dramatics, because he can be a master of the simple, straightforward speech, even if it smacks slightly of theatrics. Leo expresses approval generously and openly, and can give almost embarrassingly extravagant compliments. He's not at all bashful about his displeasure, either. Whatever he says, he usually means. It can soothe or bum, but it never fails to leave an impression. 
The regal ways of this Sun sign are splendid when the Leo man or woman is host or hostess. They make you feel you are being entertained in a royal palace. You keep expecting to see a coach and footman pull up outside the door at any moment to drop off Marie Antoinette, or, at the very least, Nell Gwyn and Madame Du Barry. Leos surround their guests with heaps of superb food, fine wines, beautiful women, and soft music. I must admit I do know one lion with strong Virgo planets in his natal chart who serves diced cucumbers sprinkled with herbs, parsley and wheat germ at parties, but the other trimmings are luxuriously leonine, always including the feminine guests. Such pulchritude! Louis XIV never had it so good. But after Louis XIV the deluge-and after many a Leo's romantic dancing and dining comes a deluge of proposals, passion, tears, anger, apologies, and just plain sentimental confusion. 
Now that we find ourselves on the subject of romance, which is a pretty common place to find yourself when you're involved with the lion, either in person or on paper, we should note that you won't find many bachelors or spinsters born under this Sun sign. If you come across one, don't form a definite opinion until you've discreetly checked the closet. There's usually a paramour hiding nearby any lion's 



lair. He may not be married when you first meet him, but he'll be in love, or just about to be, or hell have recently broken a romantic shackle, and will be wearing a pathetic, lost look. The fiery pride of Leo causes plenty of shattered love affairs and marriages. A lion minus his mate is usually a woeful sight to behold, but when his pride has been injured by a lover or a legal mate, he can drop his sad-eyed look and become pretty fierce and wild instead. Still, there's no one who can bear more in stoic dignity, or adjust more courageously to depressing conditions with sheer faith and optimism when it's necessary. 
Since forgiveness and sympathy of spirit are part of the big cat's inner nature, the reconciliations are about as frequent in Leo's emotional life as the splits, once the fireworks of outraged dignity have sputtered out and he gets lonely. He's almost continually in the throes of passion, not just with the opposite sex, but with life itself. Life without love, to both lions and shy pussycats, is like a plug without a socket. The Sun forgets to shine for them when romance dies. 
These men and women never lean on others. Instead, they prefer to be leaned on. Responsibility toward the weak and helpless appeals to them. Leo may roar theatrically that everyone depends on him and he's forced to carry the whole load, but don't pay a bit of attention to his complaints. He loves it. Try to relieve him of his burdens or lend a helping hand, and youTI see how quickly Leo will disdainfully refuse your help. Accepting financial aid is something he especially prefers to avoid. Though he may be broke frequently, he's always certain he'll find some way to line his pockets again soon. Very few Leos are cautious with cash. You may find an occasional one who was frightened by a bill collector at an early age, and behaves as if he's headed for debtor's prison any moment. But the typical lion is a spectacular gambler at heart, often wildly extravagant; even the rare cat who pinches pennies will dress expensively, and always look well turned out. He wants first class and luxury all the way, and he'll spend freely on fun and pleasure. Leo will give money to almost anybody. If he's asked for a loan and he's short of cash, hell often go out and borrow it from someone else before admitting that the King isn't in a position to help his 'needy subjects. That's a last resort, however, because Leos are mortified to be forced to turn to others for money, advice or encouragement. They have enough ego to supply (heir own encouragement, they're clever enough to accumulate their own pot of gold-and goodness knows they don't seek advice readily. One seeks advice only from those above him, and who is superior to the lion? 
Leo often runs high fevers, is prone to accidents, sudden, violent illnesses and is usually immune to chronic, lingering disease. Since they seldom do anything halfway, these people either radiate incredible vitality or else complain that they're not long for this world, the latter a typical reaction to lack of appreciation and starvation for affection. Leos seem to have either superbly strong hearts or some sort of weakness in the heart area. They may suffer from pains in the back and shoulders, spinal troubles, accidents to the legs or ankles, problems relating to the reproductive organs and hoarseness or sore throats. But they recuperate with vigor from sickness, and their main danger is carelessness about health or getting up too 


soon when illness strikes. To stay in bed and be waited on flatters the Leo vanity at first, but when he realizes he's playing the role of weak instead of strong, his spells of incapacitation are quickly conquered. 
There's no inbetween with the Sun-ruled. They are either dreadfully careless and sloppy or meticulously neat and orderly. They rather enjoy gossip, and they feel hurt or left out if something is going on around them they don't understand. Leos are fixed in nature. It's hard to sway them from a set path, though they can sway others with convincing oratory. They accumulate only so that they can distribute to others, once they've provided themselves with a glittering throne complete with a soft, feather pillow. They can show as much ferocious energy as a steam roller, and then be as sleepily lazy as the cat, stretching out and snoozing in the sun. When they work, they work. When they play, they play. When they rest, they rest. Most lions have an impressive genius for cheerfully delegating messy and unpleasant jobs to others, while they attend to important matters, like deciding who should be elected President and how the war should be won. 
Surprising himself, when a real emergency falls on Leo's strong shoulders, he'll carry it lightly and never shirk his duty, helping the defenseless, protecting the frightened (though he may be twice as frightened himself inside), cheering the melancholy and tackling his true responsibilities with courage. This is the inbred Leo nature, which will shine forth after the playboy phase has been tucked away with his gaudy hand-painted ties and that guitar he used to play. 
The next time you're on the receiving end of the lion's proud roar, remember the Queen of Hearts who constantly shouted, "Off with his head," white everyone's head stayed securely fastened on. Remember the cowardly lion in "The Wizard of Oz" who tenderly nursed his beautiful tail in injured dignity, anxiously searching the world over for the gift of true courage, only to find he was really the bravest one of the group when the real crisis came. 
Leo is a fiercely loyal friend, a just but powerful enemy, creative and original, strong and vital-whether he's a quiet or a flamboyant lion, for there are both kinds. He dresses in glorious raiment, appropriate to his colorful personality. We overlook his arrogance, his sometimes insufferable ego, his rather ridiculous spells of vanity and laziness, because his heart, like his metal, is pure gold. 
Brimming over with fun and generosity, the gay, affectionate lion prances in a field of poppies when his Sun is high in the sky-and the dice he throws with confidence bear the numbers one and four. Leo proudly wears a topaz for luck, then pushes it too far, but he has a true inner dignity and grace that lets him carry his misfortunes with courage. The warm, yellow rays of his cheerful hope deepen to orange in the sunset's glow, and his nights are bright with a thousand stars. 
Famous Leo Personalities 
Gracie Alien Lucille Ball Ethel Barrymore Bernard Baruch Bill "Count" Basic 



David Belasco Napoleon Bonaparte Walter Brennan Robert Burns Fidel Castro Julia Child Arlene Dahl Cecil B. DeMille Eddie Fisher 
Whitney 
John Galsworthy Alfred Hitchcock Aldous Huxley
Carl Jung
Jacqueline Kennedy Princess Margaret Rose Mussolini 
Ogden Nash
Dorothy Parker Walter Scott
George Bernard Shaw Percy Bysshe Shelley Robert Taylor 
Mae West Young 
The LEO Man 
" 'Tis love-'tis love that nukes the world go round!" 


When Gray wrote the lines about a flower "born to blush unseen and waste its sweetness on the desert air," he certainly wasn't describing a Leo. You might see this man basking in the bright sunlight, and you may find him making flowery speeches, but it won't be in the solitude of the desert. Most likely it will be on a stage or in front of a circle of adoring friends and relatives. He may waste money, but he's not about to waste his sweetness in the empty air. There will always be an audience. 
There you are, in a nutshell. The secret of snaring the lion is that simple. Be his audience. Totally different from the reluctant Virgo and Aquarian males, your Leo pal will happily succumb to the throes of delicious romance, if you play your cards right, adore him, flatter him, and respect him. 
Is he a flamboyant August male? Wear dark glasses and submit to his brilliant sunlight. Is he one of the gentle, quiet Leos? Don't be taken in by his sleek softness. Stroke him the wrong way and sparks will fly. Remember, he's only playing the role of the meek soul. Beneath his courteous manner and patient fixity are smoldering fires of proud dignity and arrogant vanity, ready to flame up and bum the pushy female silly enough to think she can rule him. 
The lion will be a chivalrous and gallant suitor, tenderly protective and sentimentally affectionate. You won't need to lay much of a trap to tempt him into romantic advances. One might say Leos possess a kind of instant passion. Just add opportunity-mix well with candlelight and lush violins-and love's in bloom like the red, red rose. As a matter of fact, you can leave out the candles and music if they're not handy, and just use the first ingredient. Same thing. 
If love is missing from his life, the fiery lion will simply pine away-dramatically, of course. He has to be worshiped or die, and you can just about take that literally. Leo males seldom spare expenses when they're courting. You'll be taken to the best restaurants, showered with perfume and flowers, proudly escorted to the theater and you'll tie a ribbon around some pretty fantastic love letters. To tell you the truth, you'd have to have a heart made of stone to resist. 
By now, you're probably thinking you've got it made. 
Think again. That leonine romance won't be completely trouble free. You might take a lesson from the pampered favorites of royalty. Leo will invite you into his den and warm you at the hearth of his big heart, but the lion's lair can turn into a plush, luxurious prison. Is he jealous? The answer is "Yes," and you can spell it with big electric light bulbs. You belong to him, body, soul, and mind. He'll tell you what to wear, how to part your hair, what books to read, which friends are best for you and how to organize your day better. He'll want to know why you were gone for two hours shopping when you said you'd be back in one hour, who you met on the way, what they said- and he'll even pout if you don't tell him what you're thinking as you stare out the kitchen window while you're scrambling his eggs. After all, you could be thinking of another man. Just don't ever forget the force of his impulsive temper 



when it's aroused. Teasing him by occasional flirtations to prove to him you are still desirable is absolute folly. He knows you're desirable. He needs no proof whatsoever. Besides, your Leo man is liable to flatten your innocent masculine friends to the floor-if not put them in the hospital-when he's pushed too far. 
All is not roses and honey in a love affair with a lion, and that includes the quiet pussycats along with the flashy torn cats. There's no difference in the basic nature. Every woman in love with a Leo should get a copy of Anna and the King of Siam and study it well. The Siamese monarch was a typical Leo and youll get invaluable tips from Anna's technique. First the provocative challenge to interest him, then final feminine submission after you've taught him you won't be completely devoured. Truly, her story is a must. Sleep with it under your pillow. 
Be prepared to balance his great enthusiasms with calm reason and willing to soothe him as he blows up problems intr> hnop. (timensions. The eentle Leos do this quietly, but what's the difference? Whether he roars and rages because his employees refused to obey him, or pouts on the back porch because the neighbors snubbed him the end result is identical. He needs your stability to balance his irrational pride. If you don't possess it yourself, your love may turn into a constant battle royal. You'll be breaking up and making up with such speed that your astonished friends will ask, "Where's the fire?" Where? Why, right inside your cozy lion's den. . 
Don't try to be a career girl. He'll never stand for it He's your career. The lion may permit his mate to go out hunting for a few skins when the bank account gets low, but she'd better make it clear the job comes last, after him and the home nest. He won't tolerate competition from a male or an outside interest. If you're brave enough to accept these challenges, go ahead and buy your trousseau, but be sure it's stylish. He'll want to show you off in his own Easter Parade, in December as well as in ApriL Embarrass him by appearing in public looking anything but queenly and you might miss a familiar face in the church while the choir is singing "Oh, Promise Me"-his. 
After you're married, mated, and deeply loved, count your rewards. Your Leo husband will be as kind and good-hearted as King Arthur, provided you let the family revolve around him. If he gets the respect he demands, hell repay it by pouring out generosity. You may be told how lovely you look repeatedly, he'll probably give you a large allowance, and-wonder of wonders, with his romantic dis- position-he'll be likely to remain faithful. There's always a better chance of that after marriage than when he's single, and I'll tell you why. The lion is usually too lazy to chase pretty faces, once he's found a lioness who will capably run his kingdom, while he luxuriously snoozes in the hammock. Hell play affectionately with his cubs, protect his mate from all danger, and thrill her with his ambition to rise to a position of impressive superiority in his career. 
You will lead an active social life with your Leo husband, as long as he gets his beauty sleep. But there will be a few nights out with the boys, and there may also be 


some juggling of finances, due to sudden gambling urges, or a chance investment he thought would pay off. A Leo man I know once bought ten shares in an oil well. Although he was onlv one verv minor stockholder among thousands, about twice a month, he would visit the site of the drilling and look important. When anyone asked him what he wanted, he would tell them, "I'm just checking to see how things are going with my well." The drillers treated him with great respect. They thought he was a member of the Board of Directors. 
Take it all in stride-there are compensations. How can he scold you for buying that expensive mink hat after he lost the price of a mink coat in a little game with the fellows or after he spent your savings at an auction on two box cars of folded cardboard cartons in assorted sizes, when he took a notion to go into the mail order business? (Then he couldn't use them because it turned out that they were stamped all over with the words "Rat Poison" and a large skull and crossbones.) Keep him away from auctions if you have to lock him up, because he has an irresistible urge to bid higher than anybody on anything at any time He'll be quite the check grabber in public too, cheerfully saying, "The treat's on me," with the money for the new freezer. Leo would be right at home in Texas or Las Vegas, where he would instantly be recognized as a high roller (unless his Moon or ascendant dictates econ- omy). 
There's one thing about the lion you may find very handy. Almost all Leos have a marvelous knack for fixing things. It can be anything from a broken door knob or a stubborn bathroom faucet to a tape recorder or a complicated stereo hi-fi set. If he's a typical Leo, he won't be able to resist trying his hand at making something work when it's on the blink. If all else fails, he'll give the offending machine or whatever a resounding kick in splendid leonine anger, and suddenly the door knob will turn, the water will spray like Niagara Falls, the tape recorder will start talking and the hi-fi will start singing. There seems to be something mechanical about this Sun sign. Lots of Leo men can take engines apart and put them back together again, hardly soiling their hands in the process. He's not the type to let a hinge hang for months un- screwed or a carpet lie on the floor untacked. A surprising number of lions are experts at making their own furniture and building an extra room on the house with no professional help. He may have his own workshop in the basement. Don't complain about a little sawdust on the floor. It keeps him contented-and home at night. 
The lion is the life of most parties, but he's no fool. He wears the jester's mask to get attention, and his audiences usually sense they'd better respect him during his temporary playful spells. Regardless of appearances, there's nothing easygoing about the inner nature of your Leo man. He's far more steadfast and tenacious than he seems. He knows what he wants, and he usually gets it. He's pretty good at keeping it, too. 
If you expect him to be faithful during the courtship, be sure you keep him well nourished with romance and affection or his huge need for love and admiration will make him stalk all over the jungle in search of it. If your relationship is real and 



deep, he'll probably be true to you, but his eyes may wander a bit. Other than keeping him blindfolded, there's very little you can do about that. Leo appreciates beauty, so if you're the type to get jealous over an appreciative glance at another female, you'd better get tolerant fast. A Leo man whose lady love leaves him because of his flirting will be honestly hurt and astonished. He's entirely capable, then, of faking anything from a heart attack to a tear-stained farewell note to get you to sympathize and run back into his big, warm arms, and hell be so convincing you'll feel like a cruel monster. Unless you enjoy emotional, dramatic scenes yourself, it's much less trouble to understand him in the first place. His capers will probably be innocent and harmless anyway, if you're treating him right. Never overly sensitive to the feelings of others, in spite of their basic kindness, most Leo men are so wrapped up in themselves that they can be brutally frank and untactful. But his dazzling smile soon clears the air. The warm lion doesn't have a malicious bone in his strong, graceful body. He may blow off terrifying steam, yet malice is not a part of his make-up and he can't cope with real cruelty (unless there's an affliction in his natal chart). He will enjoy sports, but as he grows older, he will prefer to watch them from the comfort of his padded throne, while you wait on him. 
Not always, but very often, there's an odd twist to Leo males. Unlike the Capricorn, who seeks to rise socially through wedlock, the lion sometimes tends to marry be- neath him. He has as much desire for social status, but he just can't resist acquiring a "subject" to whom he's superior. Sometimes he makes a wrong choice, and the shrinking violet who sat adoringly at his feet makes a surprise move to grab the sceptre away from him. When that happens, the dethroned Leo is a miserable husband who .wears the tragic compression of an exiled monarch. 
It's sad. but true- that Leos seldom raise large families. Many of them have no children, are separated from them, or raist an only child. Too bad, because they make warm, wonderful fathers, perhaps somewhat too permissive between sten talks about prope' behavior. Your offspring may chafe under his demands and be bored with his long lectures, bui they'll soon learn how to flatter him into sub- mission. He'11 insist on their respect and get it, but they're liable to wheedle him out of anything by the clever usage of "Yes, Sir. You're right. Sir." Therefore, the real discipline may be up to you. The children may resent his arrogant ways. but Leo fathers are almost always remembered with affection in later years. One tip. Don't give the youngsters more attention than you give him, or you may end up with quite a lot of trouble on your hands in the form of a giant bruised ego, which will be nearly impossible to heal. 
How can you size up the puzzling male Leo? Is he kindhearted or dangerous, generous or cruelly selfish? Is he really a sociable fellow who loves people? Does he gain his reputation for superiority under false pretenses, or does he, like the real lion, deserve to be called King? Obviously, by his own standards at least, he does deserve to be the Lord and Master in his love life and his career. You have to admit that he's usually highly successful in both romance and business. 
Whether the Leo man is truly a king, or just a pretender to the throne, we may never 


know. But there are several things you do know about your own lion. He has in- satiable appetites, and he's as proud as a peacock. He has am enormous need to command and to be loved by those he rules. Remember that Leo secretly fears he may fail and be ridiculed. It's a constant inner torture, and the true source of his vanity and exaggerated dignity. Yet, when his nobility has been aroused by a great cause, he knows no fear. Only then does the lion learn that the magnificent strength and courage he's been pretending to have has really been there all along. 
Your Leo may drive you wild by his antics during courtship, but he's not at all a bad mate for a long term possibility. If you don't mind submerging your ego, and building your life around his, once you've tamed this man, you'll be adored and youll never be lonely again. Besides, he can fix those bathroom faucets. 
The LEO Woman 
* 'Tis an honor to see me, a favor to hear:
'Tis a privilege high to have dinner and tea Along with the Red Queen, the White 
Queen And me!" 
There's one thing the Leo woman probably owns that you won't like. A scrapbook of pictures and mementos from all her old boyfriends. It's no use trying to get her to burn it, because the lioness is sentimental. 
She's not a wallflower. She's a sunflower. Chances are she's ridiculously popular, and you'll have plenty of competition if you want her to descend to using your name for the rest of her life. You will be a few leaps ahead if your name is St. Hoyme or Mountbatten, Cabot or Lodge. Anything that sounds royal or noble or important. I honestly can't imagine a Leo woman marrying anybody with the name Carbunkle or Smith. It's possible. Anything is possible. But she'll probably change Smith to Smythe. 
Most likely, she'll be the social leader of her group, lording it over lesser women like a queen, but with such disarming warmth and such a beautiful smile, no one really minds. Perhaps the other girls sense she was born to rule and dictate styles, customs and manners. Anyway, it wouldn't do much good to try to usurp her authority. 
Nature seems to have shown some prejudice when she fashioned the lioness with enough vivacity, cleverness, grace, beauty, and just plain sex appeal for at least three women, with some left over. If you're the victim of an inferiority complex, 



you'd better set your sights on a bird with less brilliant feathers. Don't expect to tame her into a docile little maid who hangs on your every word. The man who expects a Leo girl to worship at his feet is living in a fool's paradise. Consider yourself lucky if she meets you halfway, respects you, is willing to be your partner and allows you to possess her emotionally. By the very act of permitting you to love her, she's practically knighted you, for heaven's sake. Seriously, you could do-a lot worse. A lioness is a lot of woman. She's rather a luxury item, not available in the bargain basement. 
It pays to remember that the Leo female can act up a storm, and pretend to be as sweet and harmless as a bowl of jelly beans. She may have a voice like a whisper, gentle, courteous manners and big, soft eyes that sparkle delightfully when she bats her lashes. A Leo female can appear to be as smooth and calm as a cool and placid lake. On guard. That's just a role she assumed because it got good reviews. Remove her as the star of your love production, cast her in the part of the understudy or second lead, and you'll soon find out just how shy and submissive she isn't. Of course, most of the Leo women to whom you pay homage will openly make it clear that they're too proud and dignified to take any nonsense. I'd just hate to see you stumble in case you get involved with the other kind of lioness, who hides hei claws, but sharpens them every day just the same. 
The first step when you're courting this girl is to go prepared with gifts. It doesn't make much difference what they a-e, so long as they're expensive, in excellent taste, and you're dressed properly when you offer them. Then you should practice different ways of complimenting her. Please be original and creative. Phrases like "You send me, Baby," and "You're really cool, sweetheart," will get you thrown right out of the palace, back with the peasants, Vulgarity and slang both leave her ice cold. Remember, you're wooing royalty. She can't exist without flattering appreciation, but keep in mind that she admires your masculinity, and she has no desire to turn you into a henpecked weakling. A Leo woman couldn't love you if you weren't strong. It's just that she won't permit you to insult her with a condescending attitude. In her mind, she is definitely not the weaker sex. 
Lots of Leo girls are athletic and enjoy sports, but you'd be smarter to take your lioness to the theater than to the ball park. The stage and footlights will never fail to magnetize and transfigure her. (Better buy orchestra seats. Forget the balcony.) Choose a play in which the heroine behaves the way you want her to behave that night, and your chances are better than average that she'll act the part unconsciously and never miss an inflection. After the festivities are over, don't take her to a hamburger stand and expect her to sit at the counter munching french fries because she's so much in love with you. You're better off to take her out less often to more glamorous places. She's not necessarily a gold digger; in fact, she's usually generous -she won't object to frequent Dutch dates and she'll probably shower you with almost as many gifts as you give her. But she's just plain uncomfortable in shabby surroundings. The poorest Leo woman in the world will manage to accumulate enough pennies to buy draperies for the windows, rings for her fingers and bells for her toes. Now and then she may go slumming, out of curiosity, but only as a 


spectator, aloof from the crowd. Poverty depresses her and makes her physically ill. If you dress like a slob and offer her a shack, you haven't got a chance. 
There's a story about a noble Frenchwoman who turned to her lover in the gardens of Versailles and asked, "Darling, do the common people know this exquisite emotion of love?" When she was assured that they did, she cried out in injured surprise, "It's entirely too good for them!" She was probably a Leo. 
Don't blame the lioness for her occasional arrogance and vanity. It's her nature to feel herself above the common masses. People seldom resent it, because the Leo woman who's warmly loved and respected can be the kindest and most generous of females, with a womanly compassion for children and for the helpless and the forsaken. You can't really expect her to step down from a throne that's her birthright. If she's a typical Sun child, she's so gracious and dazzling that most people gladly give her credit for being out of the ordinary. Truthfully, she is. She's intelligent, witty, strong, and capable, yet deliciously feminine at the same time. No one in his right mind could call that common. 
A little flattery will get you everywhere with your Leo lady. You've already found out it's her secret weakness. And here's another secret, if you plan to marry her: 
eventually, she'll tire of her gilded cage and want to roam the jungle to see what's doing with all the other cats out there. Confinement inside four walls and under one roof can soon rob her of her sparkle. Let her have her career. Shell wither on the vine if she's forced to be just a haus-frau, unless you have enough money to allow her to be a constant hostess and an extravagant home decorator. 
The Leo girl usually makes a jewel of a wife. You'll seldom see her dressed frumpily in a tatty bathrobe, wearing curlers and wrinkle cream. Not that she skips the beauty treatments. The typical lioness will spend hours in front of the mirror and a fortune on cosmetics, but she wants you to see the results, not the strategy. There may be times when you feel you're supporting her hairdresser's entire family. Many a husband of a Leo woman finds himself pleading, "Honey, do you have to spend so much money at the beauty parlor?" But few lionesses like to do their own hair. A shampoo and set makes them feel pampered, and feeling pampered does something for every Leo. 
Unless she has a Cancer, Virgo or Capricorn ascendant, you may have to watch her with charge accounts. Leos easily slip overboard when it comes to spending for fine feathers, furnishings for the home or gifts for friends. Her wardrobe can be quite extensive. She can look luscious in evening gowns, dripping with sequins and rhinestones, or low-cut, dressy outfits. But she'll probably prefer casual clothes and sportswear, if she's a typical Leo girl. She likes tailored cuts and rich materials, but not necessarily frills and ruffles. Soft cashmeres, good Italian knits and imported English tweeds are her favorites. Her taste is usually excellent, if a bit expensive. An occasional Leo woman will overdo and bury her sense of style in gaudy, shocking clothes, but she's an exception to the general rule of the traditional leonine 



exquisite flair for fashion. 
You'll find her a superb hostess when you bring the boss home for dinner. He'll think you're a genius to have won her. She'll probably make a hit with his wife, too, because the lioness is popular with both men and women, and each sex gets treated to her friendly smile and her outgoing personality equally. Anyone who happens to be standing in her bright sunlight feels the warmth. Leos seldom cast a shadow. 
As a mother, shell pour love on her children generously and lavish affection on them. It won't be easy for her to see their faults, but when she does, she'll be strict. Since she can't stand being taken for granted, if the children don't respect her she can pout in regal silence. Many Leo mothers have a peculiar way of spoiling the child without sparing the rod, quite a contradiction when you think about it. She may romp and play with her cubs, have long, chummy talks with them, but shell also teach them to snap to attention like soldiers, polish their manners, and be obedient to their elders. At the same time, there's a danger of providing a shade too much spending money, and giving in to requests for luxuries. In a way, you might say she treats her offspring like petted members of a royal family, deeply loved, but expected to mind their p's and q's, especially in public. She'll be fiercely proud of their accomplishments, and heaven help the outsider who attempts to hurt them or judge them unfairly. With all this, she won't smother the youngsters. She's too independent to hover over them every second. She'll lead her own life, keeping a watchful eye out for her cubs, from a distance. Many Leo women are working mothers, but their youngsters seldom starve for attention. The career-minded Leos usually manage to balance motherhood and a job with perfect aplomb. 
There are times when she'll lose her dignity and poise and become a rollocking, playful lioness, with a flair for pure slapstick. She can roar with laughter like a healthy animal, but when the moment is gone, the satin voice and regal bearing return. No one can squelch a fresh remark or a rude question with as much cold contempt as a Leo female. She doesn't appreciate familiarity from strangers. Although she'll clown around and be surprisingly casual with intimates, outsiders are expected to keep their place. 
In the area of faithfulness, the Leo woman may remind you of the old toast, "Here's to me and here's to you, and here's to love and laughter-I'll be true as long as you- not a single minute after." Enough said. 
Don't be jealous of her knack for being the center of attention in a roomful of admiring males. Heads always turn when the lioness smoothly glides by. She feels it's only natural for men to pay court to her. She may encourage masculine compliments and indulge in light, innocent flirtations, because her deep need for applause and adulation covers a strange fear that she's not feminine enough and she must constantly reassure herself that she's desirable. It doesn't mean she's not still in love with you, just because she smiles at your best friend and tells him she adores his new sports jacket. But don't try telling her best friend you like her new 나 irt. That's a whole different ball game. What's sauce for the gander is not sauce for the 


goose, to reverse the old nursery rhyme. If she hears you call your secretary anything much more intimate than "Miss What's-her-name," your purring kitten may scratch. 
Of course, it's not fair. But if you want to be the proud possessor of all those gorgeous brilliantly-colored feathers, you have to make a few concessions. After all, owning a peacock is hardly the same thing as owning a cuckoo bird or a cooing pigeon. Humor her vanity. She'll probably be important in her own right, because few Leo women can resist competing with men for prestige, if not income. Your lioness could be anything from an actress to a surgeon. 
One of my best friends and favorite Leos is a well-known New York psychiatrist. Granted, it's a career which permits her to lecture and advise (Leo's favorite pastime), but she gives her counsel with such a warm smile, sparkling eyes and deep compassion, her patients feel better just being in the same room with her. Her husband pays her all the respect and adoration she demands as her royal right, but he has a profession of his own to match hers. He's a gifted writer and poet, talents which always impress the sentimental Leo. They share equal billing in front of the footlights, yet he's the man and the boss behind the scenes. A perfect success formula for taming the lioness. 
And that's the key to a smooth relationship with your Leo girl. Don't let her smother you-but don't try to top her. Just paste a big, bright star on her dressing room door, and puff up your ego. You're quite a guy, you know-to have won the hand of the proud lioness. Tell me, how did you manage to do it? 
The LEO Chid 
"Tweedledum and Tweedledee Agreed to have a battle; 
For Tweedledum said Tweedledee Had spoiled his nice, new rattle." 
Remember the game you used to play called Follow the Leader? Remember the little fellow who always sulked when he didn't get to be leader? If he was the same pal who loaned you money to buy licorice sticks and Eskimo pies when your allowance ran out, you must have had a Leo in your neighborhood gang. 
The typical lion cub is sunny, happy, playful, and jolly when he gets his own way. When he doesn't, storm clouds gather out of nowhere, along with a thunderous roar, or a hurt, brooding withdrawal. Even if he does seem to be a bit full of himself, the young Leo shouldn't be constantly put down. Suppressing his enthusiasm and high spirits can cause deep scars that may darken his Sun for years. Little lions and lionesses have a habit of bossing the other children which often annoys the mothers 



of more inhibited youngsters, but they should be restrained gently and never scolded harshly in front of playmates. The great pride of the Leo reacts violently to an attack on vanity, especially in public. 
It's good to encourage the natural leadership in Leo children, but they should be taught that everyone must have his turn, because that's the fair way, even if they are stronger than the others. 
The leonine sense of justice will usually cause the youngster to see the light. He's not maliciously aggressive. He just has a compulsion to head for the front of the parade. These boys and girls have a strong urge to show off, and it's hard to discourage if it's allowed to get out of hand. The little lion is the one who proudly stands on his head in the schoolyard or walks on a fence to thrill the girls. Wise parents will begin early to make the Leo child realize that showing off is really very undignified. This normally works like a charm, since Sun-ruled children have an innate sense of dignity. 
You'll notice it in the tiniest Leos. There's a sort of regal bearing, which creates the impression that baby is monarch of all he surveys. The term "His majesty, the baby" was coined to describe a Leo infant. Little cubs will begin early to rule the roost, wrapping mother and daddy and the entire retinue of relatives around their fingers with very little effort. It's the oddest thing, but a small lion sitting on his throne-I mean in his high chair-covered with prune juice and egg yolk, and needing a change of diapers, will somehow manage to keep his dignity intact. It comes naturally to a Leo baby to allow doting parents and admir-, ing friends to pay homage to him, while he graciously accepts their attention, gifts, and nattering tributes. He finds adoration very easy to take. Notice the pleased, smug look on his face when strangers stop to make a fuss over him. 
Your Leo child will be more reckless than the average youngster, take more chances and be more active. Then will come those periodic spells of leonine laziness, when he'll lie around the house too tired to lift a finger, except to motion for you to wait on him. Leave him alone and make him understand no one is his servant. If he wants something, he can get it himself when his energy returns. Otherwise, a spoiled Leo child can become a regular tyrant. Now and then, of course, it doesn't hurt to bring him a book, hand him a glass of chocolate milk or otherwise perform a friendly favor. But a little such submission to the lion's whims is plenty, unless you have a secret urge to be a lady-in-waiting or a prince's equerry. Leo youngsters who have been trained that they must respect the rights of others if they are to be respected themselves can be lots of fun to live with. They're as playful and affectionate as those adorable little cubs you see at the zoo, and like the cubs, they need strict and loving discipline. The warm kiss and the tough birch rod will both have to be employed frequently by lion tamers. Either one without the other is always ineffective and dangerous. 
There arc two kinds of Leo boys and girls. The first kind are the extroverts, gay, cheerful, outgoing, warm and generous, if a bit pushy at times. The others are 


quieter, almost timid on the surface. Such outwardly bashful little lions may have suffered a serious blow to their vanity from domineering parents or from too much attention being paid to brothers and sisters. Secretly, they need power and applause as much as the others. The danger in such situations, if they're prolonged, is that the Leo child will either get the attention he seeks later in life by forcing issues at the wrong time with the wrong people, or retreat into painful shyness and destructive frustration. Leo ego, unnaturally bottled up for long periods, is most unhealthy. 
As youngsters, Leo boys may like to play with soldiers and enjoy games of challenge with a strong element of chance. The little female Leo will be ladylike, if strong-willed, may enjoy nice clothes and being told she's pretty, and will probably like being given responsibilities around the house. An occasional Leo girl is a tomboy, but vanity will eventually win out, and the phase passes. Don't expect these youngsters to enjoy taking out the garbage or clearing the floors. They will rebel against menial tasks, so assign them more important and dignified duties that give them a sense of authority. 
Teachers can expect the Leo students to do a little instructing of their own. They love to explain things to others, and nothing delights them more than playing the role of substitute instructor when the teacher has to leave the room. It puts them in the spotlight. Normally, the Leo child left in charge at school will administer discipline happily, but now and then his playful spirit will come forth, and the teacher can return to find a three-ring circus in progress. 
Young Leos can leam fast when they want to. They're intelligent, and are often richly rewarding to the patient teacher, but they have a tendency to be a little lazy about learning. They prefer to slide by on sunny personality and ingratiating charm. Teachers can be a little sun blinded by their smiles and compliments, and it's not unusual for little cubs to get better grades than they deserve. They may have to be forced to develop good study habits. On second thought, forcing is a waste of time. The easiest way to raise the grades of a Leo child is to appeal to his vanity, to make him want to be superior to the others. That will usually turn the trick. When he's good, pat him on the back so he really feels it. Light taps won't do. No matter how many compliments he gets, he's always hungry for more. 
These children will probably require more spending money than their more frugal friends. Your Leo child may give away most of his spare nickels, but he won't short- change himself, either. It's a good idea to teach him the rule the Rockefeller children were taught about finances: 
"Give some, spend some, save some." Especially the last 
When they grow older, the young lions and lionesses will notice the opposite sex much sooner than youngsters born under other Sun signs. Expect a turbulent adolescence, because your Leo child will be up and down emotionally a hundred times a day. Both his friendship and his romances will be terribly dramatic, and full of colorful ecstasy and heartbreak. All Leo children love to go to parties. Give them 



plenty of freedom, or they'll simply take it. Harsh orders destroy their pride and dignity. If you build the courage and flatter the ego of your young Leo by telling him sincerely you know he can do it, he'll proudly be strong for you. 
It's never an easy task to raise an August child. There will be moments when you feel your caged lion will never be tamed. But he can be, if you remember that he needs gentle and continuous discipline-and love and affection are the two magic keys that unlock his golden heart. It's not the lions who were adored as children who grow up into unhappy adults. It's the little cubs who were emotionally starved and neglected. Remember that he'll pretend to be very brave, but secretly fears he isn't. Hug him tightly every night and love him with all your heart. 
The LEO Boss 
"Now don't interrupt me, I'm going to tell you all your faults 
It puzzled her very much at first But after watching it a minute or two She made it out to be a grin. 
You have a Leo boss and you've worked for him for over a year? Really? You must be a very good listener. 
Your Leo boss will probably feel that corporate taxes, government regulations and union rules were all invented as a personal conspiracy against him, but he'll dispose of them easily. Most lions are excellent organizers and perfect geniuses at delegating authority. His way of implementing such annoying situations is to turn to you and dictate, with great nourish, some resounding phrases on the general subject, then wave his hand regally, and with a gorgeous smile say vaguely, "You take it from there." Then he'll probably add that he'd like the report completed and placed on his desk as soon as possible. "Take your time," he'll say. "As long as I get it before noon tomorrow." Leos are not fond of details. They prefer to paint the picture in bold strokes and let you worry about bothersome trifles like figures and statistics. 
The classic example of a Leo boss is one I know who called in his secretary to dictate an answer he had prepared for an especially important client. "Have you de- cided what you want to say?" asked the innocent girl, shorthand book open, pencil poised. "Yes, I have," smiled her Leo employer. "Tell him maybe. Got that? Maybe. You fill in all the other stuff." With those masterful instructions, he cheerfully went to lunch where he entertained several people at an expensive bistro, played a few rounds of golf, returned to the office around five o'clock and wanted to know if the letter was ready. It was. (The secretary was a Virgo.) After reading it with solemn 


approval, the Leo reached for the phone and quoted the letter to an associate. His words floated through the office door to the long-suffering secretary. "How do you like it?" he asked into the receiver. "I think I did an excellent job of putting the whole situation together and making it clear where we stand, don't you? Of course, I've always had a way of expressing myself. My wife is always telling me I should be a writer," he finished modestly. 
This may be a somewhat extreme case, but you will find echoes of such an attitude lingering in the air if you have a typical Leo boss. Give him all your original ideas. He'll love you for it. August-born executives tend to favor employees who add creative thinking to the firm. However, be prepared to see him grinning like a Cheshire Cat the next day as he proceeds to organize the plan you gave him the night before, tossing out the startling comment, "It's one of the best ideas I ever had." He honestly believes he thought of it first. Truly. Of course, you triggered his imagination, which is why you're so valuable to him. But it was his idea. Remember that. 
Now and then your Leo boss may seem a tiny bit ungrateful. Like he'll toss a huge stack of letters on your desk because he can't be bothered or bored reading them himself. Then the next morning, when you're bleary-eyed from staying until midnight to finish the extra work he threw at you, hell shake his lion's mane disapprovingly, and mumble a comment on the sloppy condition of your desk, as he walks to his own plush lair. Oh, yes, he's almost sure to have a luxurious private office. It may have soft .lights, music, flowers, a down-cushioned sofa and a cherry- wood desk. Even if the budget is small, you'll seldom find him surrounded by pineapple crates and dingy window panes with no draperies. The walls may be covered with excellent prints of good paintings or photos of himself, taken with important dignitaries. Any awards or certificates he's earned will be neatly framed, and hung in a prominent 
spot. 
Another Leo boss I know had an assistant who worked overtime every night and all day on Saturdays and Sundays for three months on a special promotion. She also managed to move filing cabinets, pack huge boxes of merchandise and change the bottles in the water cooler every other day. Meanwhile, she found time to do her boss's Christmas shopping and pick up his cleaning once a week. One bright, sunny morning she overheard him singing her praises to a vice president of the firm. "That Hester is a real jewel," he was saying. "I don't know what I'd do without her. The girl is really fantastic. Of course, she's a little bit lazy, but you can't expect to find everything in one person." 
Did Hester quit on the spot? I should say not. Why should she let a little thing like that bother her? She's a smart girl, who knows that anyone's efforts seem drab when they're compared to her boss's fabulous vitality (in between his daily beauty naps on the velvet chaise lounge in his private office). Why should she leave a boss who never fails to admire her new dress? She would hardly hand in her resignation to a 



man who presented her with a topaz bracelet for her birthday, a set of Waterford crystal for her hope chest, and who so sweetly understood that the color of her typewriter made her nervous. He even painted it bright yellow for her, though he was a little sloppy, and some of the paint dripped on the keys. It came off on her fingers for weeks afterwards, but she didn't mind, because it was a pleasure to wash her hands every hour with the scented soap he keeps in the washroom. 
Her Leo boss helped her father find a new job, paid her mother's hospital bill, and generously gave in to her requests to hire her cousin in the mail room. Besides, she's proud of his reputation in his profession. He won two awards last year; he's dictating a book to her about his life; 
he's listed at the top of the best dressed men in Esquire; 
he's deeply in love with his wife, adores his children, and has caused the firm's profits to go sky high, in spite of those wild chances he took a couple of times. He seldom notices if she takes extra time at lunch. Last week, he found her a larger apartment with lower rent and scolded her fiance because he wasn't treating her right. Quit? What do you mean, quit? 
If you're a man who works for a Leo executive, you have some special problems. Be original, daring, creative, and hard working. But remember that he will always be more original, daring, creative and hard working than you -Tn his eyes. Say "Yes" to most of his brainstorms (and he'll Have quite a pack of them in the course of a week). If you must say "No," precede it with a huge compliment and close it with another one. Sandwiched in between that kind of appreciation, he might accept it. But be tactful and proceed carefully. 
Even the gentler, less showy Leo executives normally like to spread sunshine, and have oodles of delightful charm. When your leonine boss gets every last ounce of credit he deserves, plus an extra helping of respect for good measure, he'll make you glow with his praise of a job well done. He'll never be stingy with compliments. He won't hold back his disapproval either. The lion is apt to point out your mistakes with very little discretion. Employees with ultra sensitive natures would be happier working elsewhere. So would those with large egos of their own. There's more than a trace of arrogance in your Leo employer, but it's probably tempered with good- natured optimism. He'll keep things humming and running smoothly. Leos were born to command, with an enviable talent for assigning the right jobs to the right people and seeing that they're finished on time. 
Office intrigues will anger him. He simply can't stand people keeping secrets from him. He must know everything that's going on. Don't be annoyed if your Leo boss is a bit nosey about your private affairs or gives you lectures on how to run your personal life. It's really a stamp of royal approval. It means he likes you enough to want to protect you by giving you the advantage of his superior wisdom. 
Leo bosses can be very funny. They can have fearful rages, and then pout behind 


closed doors for hours when they think they've been insulted. They melt under flattery despite themselves. They dress well, eat well and sleep well. They're warm and generous to a fault, and if they get the respect they demand, they can turn failure into victory overnight with an awesome strength of character. The lion gets tremendous inner satisfaction from giving orders, and delivering lectures is something he's especially fond of doing. 
You may have the kind of Leo employer who hides his hunger for the spotlight under a quiet demeanor. But the typical dignity, pride and vanity of the Sun sign is just as much a part of his basic nature as it is with the dramatic types. Any doubts? Try to puncture his ego in the smallest way; then stand back out of range. 
One Leo boss I had, who fell into the quiet pussycat category, used to call a special meeting of the entire staff in his office every Tuesday morning. The ostensible reason was to improve working relationships, but the real motive behind those weekly sessions was that they were the shy Leo's big chance to deliver his thoughts to a captive audience. Bless his heart, it was his moment on stage. 
When he's treated right, there's no one on earth who can be as lovable as the lion. What if he does seek admiration in huge doses to feed his insatiable vanity? Most of the time, he honestly deserves to be admired. He may plagiarize your ideas and rob you of credit now and then. You may weary of listening to his condescending advice and of telling him how super he is. But no other boss would have let you keep the baby carriage right next to your desk that time you lost your sitter. Of course, you would have preferred the time off to care for the infant at home. But the boss needed you at the office. And after all, he's the baby's Godfather. 
The LEO Employee 
The sun was shining on the sea,
Shining with all his might:
He did his very best to make
The billows smooth and bright-And this was odd, because it was The middle of the night. 
If your employee is a typical Leo, it will be almost im-| possible to ignore him. If he's a quiet Leo, it wouldn't J be wise to ignore him. The more aggressive lion will 



force j you to appreciate his talents and recognize his value by | simply telling you how wonderful he is. The shy pussycat 
type will pout until you give him the same treatment. | It adds up to the same thing. Don't ignore your Leo em-' ployees. 
Whether the lion roars from center stage or bides his time in the wings, he is proud. He is dignified. He knows his superiority and he doesn't want anyone to overlook it. ; Leos are not the kind to hide their light under a bushel. | If tribute isn't paid to their vanity, both types of lions will find another savannah to honor with their presence. They can't bear to be underestimated. 
All Leos love titles. The bigger and fancier, the better. ; Offer the lion a substantial raise, but give the fellow at the next desk the title of "Chief of Office Coordination," and the lion won't thank you for the extra cash in his pay envelope. He'll be too busy brooding over the increased status of his co-worker, who couldn't possibly deserve such a promotion as much as he does, of course. 
It's not perversity that causes him to insist on his rights. He was born to be the master of all he surveys. Leadership is an inherent part of his nature and impossible to root out completely. Leo is fully equipped to take charge. He feels useless and helpless, as well as unwanted, when he's not assuming some kind of obligation. If there's nothing else available to build his sense of importance, hell get it by handing out free advice to his friends and family. Strangers won't be neglected, either. Leo scatters his pearls of wisdom impartially. He'll tell you how much you should pay for having an extra room built over your garage, counsel your secretary about her alimony problems, inform the cleaning woman what kind of ointment to use on her sore toe, and explain to the mailman how he could make his deliveries more efficiently. The less important he is on the job, the more seriously he'll practice his counseling service, 
I know one Leo man (the quiet type) who worked for a large company. For years, his family had the vague impression that he was the district sales manager. In reality, he was an ordinary salesman and a route supervisor, as well as one of the most indispensable men in the company. Since he couldn't be sales manager until the well-qualified man who held the title had retired, the Leo swallowed his injured pride, and satisfied his leonine vanity by allowing his family to assume he had the position. 
His enormous sense of responsibility was evident in his consistent loyalty and devotion over the years. He spent a quarter of a century supplying creative advertising ideas to the firm that paid off in steadily rising profits. At the same time, he competently supervised the company's truck routes at all hours, in all kinds of weather, and waited for the recognition he deserved, but his promotion to the top position was always just around the corner. When the sales manager finally retired, a younger man was brought in from New York to take over. That was the day the Leo quit. There was a heavy Capricorn influence in his chart, so the situation was 


easier for him to bear than it would have been for the typical Leo, but he'll carry the scars of the deep wound to his pride all his life. There's nothing in this world as sad as the sight of the dignified lion robbed of the respect he desperately seeks and has honestly earned. 
You had better make a note that the leonine sense of responsibility, which can be so impressive, usually doesn't show itself until maturity. In his youth, the lion is the classical playboy, prancing joyously through days and nights of wine, women and song, wearing the flashiest clothes in the group, making everyone laugh at his clown-like antics and roaring when someone steps on his magnificent tail. 
It's usually wise to use young Leo employees in promotion and sales. They're natural showmen, and they'll keep your customers happy with their warm, sunny dispositions. Later, as they mature, the big cats can gradually be eased into the top positions, where they'll usually live up to every bit of responsibility you give them. It's a smart boss who knows at what point the lion has graduated from the role of playboy prince to the just, dignified king. 
It's a strange thing about Leos of both sexes. Underneath their brave fronts, they secretly fear they have no real courage They can behave with the most exasperating pride and outrageous vanity, display insufferable ego, exhibit periods of pure laziness. Then along comes a crisis or emergence, either on the job or in their personal lives. Suddenly, to everyone's surprise, the lion and lioness show themselves to be the steady ones. Only under great pressure, weighed down by the heaviest burdens life has to offer, does the inner strength born in this Sun sign come forth in all its glory. 
Jacqueline Kennedy's childhood of ease and comfort left people totally unprepared for her incredible courage in the face of unspeakable tragedy. The Leo with the reputation of a playboy will surprise his friends when he bravely and cheerfully supports an invalid wife and two elderly aunts after a thoughtless, carefree, irresponsible youth. Those born under the sign of the Lion and ruled by the Sun never guess what awesome power they possess until the test comes. Until that time, always remember, they are only pretending to be strong. The lion's fierce roar hides an inferiority complex which is totally unnecessary. 
If Leo can't be the boss, then he must have a position where he can display his talents and abilities to the world in some way. After changing jobs a dozen times because he hasn't advanced to at least a vice presidency, the typical Leo will usually head for a profession where he can be his own boss. If the role of executive or leader is denied them, they're happier as teachers, salesmen, doctors, lawyers, managers, counselors, speakers, announcers, actors, actresses, writers or even plumbers and tourist guides. The lion seeks an occupation which allows him to give his superior knowledge to others in some manner, or to stand in the bright spotlight of publicity. They shine the brightest in the fields of politics and public relations. 
Keep in mind that the Leo employee will either become an executive on your own 



level in a reasonable length of time, or he'll leave. He can never be content to work behind the scenes. The applause he needs is out front. Still, you're lucky to have the lion for whatever period he remains with you. He'll work harder than almost anyone else to show you what a wonderful person he is, and a steady supply of compliments will inspire him to a point where he'll show an unbelievable vitality far beyond the limits of normal endurance. Withholding flattery from your Leo employee will rob you of at least fifty percent of his potential value. 
See that your lioness gets her vanity plumped up regularly too. Occasionally bring her a yellow rose to tuck in her hair, and never mind the whispers of the gossips. You can't afford to lose her. The gossips don't have her virtues and abilities. Tell her frequently how lovely she looks, how smart she is, and occasionally hand her com- plimentary tickets to a concert or a gala affair. Always two tickets, please, because the Leo girl will invariably be married, be in love or have a special boy friend in all seasons. 
As for the lion, take him to lunch often, in an expensive restaurant, where important people can see him with the big man. Let both your male and female Leo employees be the ones to train new workers when you can. They won't mind the extra work, they'll be proud of the responsibility and they'll love telling others what to do and how to do it. 
A little astrological psychology, cleverly applied, can make your proud, touchy Leos a real credit to the company. They'll decorate the office with their grace and enthusiasm. Surround them with bright lights, vivid yellow or orange draperies and carpets, and the most expensive desks and typewriters you can afford. Nothing depresses a Leo's spirit more than having to work with shabby, obsolete equipment, unless it's working with pessimistic, unimaginative people. 
They'll need generous expense accounts and a little extra time for lunch. Meals are social occasions for Leos, and they use such opportunities to practice their art of promoting. Just give them the barest idea to start with, and they'll explode it into a dramatic campaign which may bring in lots of new customers. You can't expect them to operate at full speed when they have to watch the clock and worry about money. Leos can be fast with figures, but somehow they seldom learn the knack of counting pennies. 
As for the clock, it cramps their style. The lion is easy to tame, when you know how. Relax the rules slightly and let down the bars a little. These employees can't be fenced in, or they'll sulk away the hours and lose their bright incentive. 
It's smart to hire a Leo. He'll add a dash of excitement and he can carry some gigantic loads on his back without complaining. He needs a rich diet of compliments, authority, raises, titles and freedom, but it's not too high a price to pay for his intelligence, loyalty, faith, ideas and sense of responsibility. After all, how many bosses have royalty on the payroll? Feed both your big cats and shy pussycats plenty of catnip, and they'll justify it by being your biggest boosters, as proud of 


your company as if they owned it themselves. The lion's heart is as big as his ego. "If seven maids with seven mops
Swept it for half a year, Do you suppose," the Walrus said,
"That they could get it clear?" "I doubt it," said the Carpenter, 
And shed a bitter tear. 

Moon in Leo
Depending on other positions in the chart, Moon in Leo people are not necessarily outgoing. When they feel comfortable, they do like being the center of attention. That is, they like being in the “spotlight” in the comfort of their own homes and with family and friends. They enjoy entertaining others, and often take on the role of comic.
Lunar Leos often feel a need to organize, and even control, their families and friends. They have an inner mission to set things right, and generally like to oversee the goings-on in their little circle.
This is a rather creative position of the Moon. At the very least, Moon in Leo people wantto create and entertain. They can be rather lazy at times, and a little bossy too. Generally, though, they have a deep need to treat others fairly and justly.
Lunar Leos require lots and lots of love and care in order to function well in the world. When they feel slighted, these people can be dramatic in their emotional displays. When their pride has been hurt, they are given to big scenes and sulking. This rarely happens in public, however. Lunar Leos are far too concerned about their image to make splashy scenes outside the comfort of their own homes. In public, they prefer to take things in dignified ways. At home, however, they’re given to big displays of emotional drama. These scenes generally don’t last too long, however. Lunar Leos are often personally popular folk who are valued for their integrity and strong sense of justice.
Moon in Leo folk are very proud, and they are rarely happy to follow orders. Leo is a Fixed sign, and it can be difficult to change a Lunar Lion’s mind or to change up plans on them at the last moment. They need time to adjust to schedule changes.
Generally, it is easy to reason with a Lunar Lion. Appealing to their well-developed sense of fairness usually works well.
Sun in Leo
Leo natives are dignified, courageous, affectionate, powerful, generous, playful, optimistic, ambitious, loyal, and cheerful. On the negative side, though, they can be quite demanding, intolerant, domineering, lazy, closed-minded, and self-centered. They choose to do things that give them wide scope for creativity, organizing, and leadership. Although appearing strong on the outside, most Leos are inwardly sensitive and their feelings are easily hurt. When this occurs, they can turn on the object of their affection, when their pride is hurt.
Leo natives have a decided flair for the dramatic and they enjoy telling stories, being the center of attention, having a good time, and running the show. Mean and cruel acts are generally beneath them, but they do not hesitate to use force when needed. No matter what their actions, they always have the belief that whatever they do is for the other person's benefit.
If a Leo is angered, he immediately goes into his kingly role, "mounting his throne" and quickly putting the opposition or challenger in their proper place. Leos literally roar at people when they are angry. But once their tirade is over, they forgive and forget and never hold a grudge.
At their best, Leos are affectionate, cheerful, optimistic people who can be counted on to bring sunshine into other people's lives. They are exceptionally generous. Money appears to slip through their fingers as if it were grains of sand. And, like the sand, they have no idea where it has gone.
Leos usually have vitality and good health, with strong recuperative powers. When they are ill, they have a tendency to run high fevers. They are seldom depressed, but when they are, they are devastated. Fortunately, their resilient powers are excellent, so they are soon sunny and happy again, unless their heart has been broken. That is the one thing a Leo has difficulty in overcoming. This can actually lead to physical troubles with their own heart. 
Leos need to admire their marriage partner. If they don't, the marriage may not last very long. In the end, Leos need to feel appreciated.

Bold, intelligent, warm, and courageous, fire sign Leo is a natural leader of the Zodiac, ready to blaze a trail, vanquish injustice, and make a name for themselves along the way. Blessed with high self-esteem, Lions know that they possess enviable traits—and they're proud of them. They don't believe in false modesty and will be the first to praise themselves for a job well done. But Leo isn't self-aggrandizing or unwilling to roll up those sleeves and do the work: this sign knows that in order to be respected and admired, he or she needs to put in the effort worthy of a leader.
Don't Leave Love To Chance!  Get guidance from experienced psychics
Don't Leave Love To Chance!  Get guidance from experienced psychics
But it's not all hard work for Lions. Intense and energetic, Leos thrive on social interactions and have no problem making friends—although pinning them down to spend time with you is another story. Leos put themselves first, and will turn down a plan that doesn't fit with their agenda or idea of fun. This trait has gained them an unfair reputation for arrogance. But on the flip side, when a Lion chooses to spend time with you, it's genuinely because he or she wants to.
Leos are passionate in all pursuits, including relationships, and take it upon themselves to be the best partner you've ever had. They love grand gestures, and they want to show the world how attentive and caring they can be. They also can't resist flashiness and often buy their partner the biggest and best presents. Leo is an adventurer, seeking to balance an intense life of social obligations and travel with plenty of downtime to relax and luxuriate. Work and outward appearances matter to this sign, and they're willing to do whatever it takes to gain a job title or workplace status, even if it means temporarily sacrificing their precious leisure time.
Benevolent with their time and attention, Leos are never cliquey, always showing friendliness and politeness to everyone. While almost everyone else is entranced by the Leonine personality, Leos are their own harshest critic and consider each day a challenge to be the best, brightest, and boldest Lion they can be.
Leos are amazing! Their name says it all:

L for leaders
E for energetic
O for optimistic

A natural leader, Leo's very presence inspires others to be the best they can be. But with great power comes great responsibility. Leos love the pull of the limelight, and they're occasionally swayed by what other people want (or expect) them to do. Although this sign has a loud inner voice, learning to listen to it—especially if it's guiding them toward an unpopular move—is a lifelong lesson that will only make proud Lions stronger and more resilient.
Lions are well known for their loud roar. But learning to quiet down and listen is essential for Leos to reach their peak power—especially when they're hearing a voice that doesn't match their confidence and certainty. And while this sign thrives on their split-second decision-making and reaction skills, they might sometimes benefit from taking a few seconds, minutes, or even days before making their opinion known on a subject. Researching all sides, doing due diligence, and learning from other people's experiences are all essential for a Leo to be as strong a leader as possible.
A giving nature. Most people assume that Lions are all about themselves. But appearances are deceiving. A Leo's secret weapon is his or her boundless capacity for love, affection, and generosity.
Barack Obama, Leonardo DiCaprio, Mila Kunis, Daniel Radcliffe, J.K. Rowling, Chris Hemsworth, Jennifer Lawrence, Madonna


The sign of Leo is represented by the lion, and those who fall under the zodiac sign of Leo are known for their sense of pride and leadership.


Date:Â July 23 - August 22

Symbol: The Lion


Duality:Â Active


Element: Fire


Quality: Fixed


Ruling Planet: The Sun


Tarot Card: Strength



LeoÂ Zodiac SignÂ Personality

Just like the lions they are named for, many Leos that you meet will have quite a regal air about them. Being ruled by the Sun, they often are able to bring warmth, light and life into the lives of those that surround them. They like to surround themselves with a large social circle that will adore and appreciate them. Their natural charisma and dignity will often draw other signs to them, falling under Leoâ€™s magnetic pull. Like our Sun in the solar system, Leo zodiac signs love being the center of attention. They thrive on flattery compliments - which often come to them easily. Most of them will have an innocent quality to them, their happy and outgoing nature makes them a joy to be around.
A Leo will love luxury and material things. They like to amass wealth and choose jobs that have a great salary and allow them to lead. They make for great leaders and protectors. Because of this, they are often cornerstone of social groups and will lead in planning processes and decisions. Conversely, they often don't do well in situations where they have to take orders from other people.



Download Printable Zodiac Cheat Sheets
A black and white list of zodiac sign characteristics formatted for printers. Includes keywords, planetary rulers, symbols, elements and modalities.





Sign up to our mailing list


Enter Your Email





                
                    download
                
              












Positives ofÂ Leo Zodiac Sign

Strengths:Â Brave, Playful, Leader, Fun, Warm, Protective, Generous, Charismatic

People who fall under the sign of the lion are fiercely loyal and will protect those who cannot protect themselves. They are often very honest people and will expect the same from those around them. As long as they feel appreciated and know that they are loved, they will be return the kindness to those around them as well. They often will fight for their family and friends, and will be loyal to the last. They work hard on their relationships and never take family for granted. Leo people never shy away from responsibility and will always take over and lead when they can, removing the burden from othersâ€™ shoulders and enjoying doing so. 
They are often very caring and chivalrous, and at the first sign of trouble, they are there to help someone in need. The Leo zodiac sign is filled with a deep moral sentiment - they believe in doing what is right. However, because of their pride, they often have trouble accepting help.
Although they are typically very creative, they don't like to get involved with details, and find people who do work with detail quite boring. Their talent for expressing themselves often comes out in everything that they do.

NegativesÂ ofÂ Leo Zodiac Sign

Weaknesses:Â Egotistical, Dominating, Stubborn, Controlling, A Show-off, Vain

Those born under the Leo zodiac sign are driven by their egos, and do not do well when that ego is damaged. Their pride can often get them into a lot of trouble. 
This can happen when they are not in control of a situation. The love of being in charge and the driving their social groups can lead them to seem smothering to friends and family. This can also lead to them being left alone and ignored, which is just about the worst thing that can happen to a Leo. 
They are often quite easily hurt and do not deal with their insecurities well. Some Leos can be downright fragile when it comes to their pride, meaning they do not react well to criticism. When they feel snubbed they can start to childishly demand attention. Deep down inside, though their pride will never let them admit it, many Leos search for the approval of others. It helps them feel important and loved. Leo people can come across to other signs as being very arrogant and selfish, distancing them from those that they consider a waste of their time. An insecure Leo can sometimes be found showing off, desiring to prove that they are what they want to be perceived as. 



Unlock the Wisdom of the Stars
Get the Claves Astrologicae, a 44-card astrology oracle deck. Use the zodiac, the planets, the houses and the phases of the moon to guide you.

View Deck




Love and Relationships forÂ LeoÂ Zodiac Sign
Love is the most important thing in a Leo person's life. They always need to feel appreciated and loved, and if they do, they return that love generously. They love all the theatrical aspects of love and courtship, the showy dates, grandiose gestures, the romantic and expensive dinners all being ways they show both their love and their pride. They make for passionate partners and bring the fires of excitement to all their love affairs.
If they are ignored or left to feel unappreciated, they will feel very hurt. Breakups and divorce are not just painful emotional losses, but also serious blows to their ego. The deep emotional impact a breakup can case a Leo is therefore twofold - they take it as a personal failure above all. Most Leos will do everything they can to avoid that outcome.
Their great sense of pride can also mean that they have a problem with admitting when they are wrong. Itâ€™s hard for a Leo to say sorry. On the other hand, when their partners have wronged them, they forgive quite easily, so long as the apology is sincere. They are not the type to hold grudges, and fall sometimes much too easily to flattery. Leo generally are accepting of everyone around them, and cultivate strong and long-lasting relationships. 


Friends and FamilyÂ forÂ LeoÂ Zodiac SignÂ 
Much like the lion, people who share the Leo zodiac sign love a sense of community. They are very protective of their family and friends, and do not take real or perceived threats well. Any kind of family rifts affect them deeply, as their highest priority is often to keep the family close, strong, and healthy. People who fall under this sign will have long lasting relationships with their family and friends, meaning that they rarely fall out of step with people, or lose relationships.Â 


CareerÂ forÂ LeoÂ Zodiac SignÂ 
When it comes to careers, a Leo will usually choose jobs that have a high pay grade. They like their luxury and material things, so money is something that will be at the forefront of their minds. This works well enough, because they love to be the leader - meaning they often do well being the top boss and owning their own businesses. They can often have some trouble when they first start off in a job and have to deal with upper management and taking orders from others. But when allowed to take the initiative and make the decisions, they will inspire others to be strong and decisive. Their pride can make them difficult to deal with but this also means they are immensely passionate in their work, and will always want to do the best that they can. 

Zodiac SignÂ Leo Cheat Sheet and Infographic

Â 
